King Charles tipped to ignore Meghan and Prince Harry in historic Christmas speech | Royal | News | Express.co.uk
King Charles tipped to ignore Meghan and Harry Netflix row in historic Christmas speech
King Charles recorded his first Christmas broadcast on December 13 in the quire at St George's Chapel, in Windsor.
King Charles: Image released from first Christmas broadcast
 has been tipped to ignore the Duke and Duchess of Sussex in his first-ever 
 broadcast. Royal experts agree it is unlikely the new monarch will dedicate too any words, if any at all, to his second son and daughter-in-law in his historic speech.
Shock as King Charles throws Prince Andrew out of Buckingham Palace
Meghan and Harry 'backed into corner' by Netflix after money runs dry
In a comment piece written for the Daily Express, royal author Phil Dampier said: "Charles will thank his wife 
 and the Prince and Princess of Wales for their support. He will offer an olive branch to 
 by not directly criticising them."
Royal commentator Richard Fitzwilliams categorically excluded the possibility Prince Harry and Meghan will be featured in the speech.
He told i news: "All the indications are the Palace would prefer to ride the current crisis &ndash; for that is what it must be called &ndash; out without any statement of any sort."
Similarly, Jeremy Archer, historian and author of a book looking into the Christmas broadcasts between the 20th and 21st Centuries titled A Royal Christmas, said: "There will be no indication whatsoever of any family politics or any other shenanigans going on at the moment. He will want to present the message of a family pulling together in grief."
If Charles did decide to speak about Harry and Meghan, Mr Archer added, he will only make a "broad-brush mention".&nbsp;
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle odds on to lose royal titles
King Charles has been tipped to ignore Meghan and Harry in his speech 
Prince Harry and Meghan will likely celebrate Christmas privately 
POLL: Should Rishi Sunak block Nicola Sturgeon's new Gender Recognition Bill?
Scotland became the first part of the UK to approve a self-identification system for people who want to change gender. However, the UK Government has threatened to block the controversial law.
Do you think Prime Minister Rishi Sunak should intervene on First Minister Nicola Sturgeon? 
He continued: "People will be looking at these words. It will be vanilla in respect of them. It will be as vanilla as it can be."
previously told Express.co.uk the King may mention tomorrow some members of his family
He said: "I think that the King will almost likely mention his family and specific members of his family in terms of his feelings towards them where they are working royals.
"In this case, he may comment on their work as he did in that address after the Queen died, where he mentioned William more than he mentioned Harry, which I think is reasonable as the Duke chose to leave the working family and indeed the country, so that was respectful of his wishes in that respect."
While on his first national address as head of state he spoke about&nbsp;
's new titles and work, Charles simply said of the Sussexes: "I want also to express my love for Harry and Meghan as they continue to build their lives overseas."&nbsp;
King Charles's Christmas speech will likely be focused on the late Queen 
The Queen's committal service was held at St George's Chapel in September 
Meghan biographer's fury at Kate 'fashion swipe'
Harry 'seeks reconciliation' with Charles and William over Netflix doc
King Charles recorded his Christmas speech - the first broadcast by a King to be televised in British history - on December 13, two days before the second half of the Netflix documentary Harry &amp; Meghan was released.
Breaking with tradition, he didn't film the speech in one of his residences but, rather, inside St George's Chapel.
This has led commentators to believe the monarch's speech will be heavily focused on his late mother 
, who is buried in the George VI Memorial Chapel near the church's quire.
Mr Dampier wrote: "I've no doubt the late Queen will be at the centre of King Charles's eagerly awaited first Christmas address to the nation at 3pm tomorrow.&nbsp;
"He will want to pay tribute to his "darling mama" and her extraordinary 70-year reign, as well as his father Prince Philip who died in April last year."
Meghan and Harry&rsquo;s Netflix show 'backfires' as US turns on couple
King Charles 'leaves door open' for Prince Harry
Princess Anne keeps her 'slim figure' with an 'antioxidant powerhouse'
King Charles delivering his first-ever national address as monarch in September 
significant the decision to film the speech in the Windsor chapel is
, Mr Fitzwilliams said on Friday: "The Queen was very fond of Windsor, which is the world&rsquo;s oldest and largest occupied palace and dates back over 1,000 years. She spent the war years there.
"As Queen she spent most weekends there. She held Easter Court there for a month each year and Royal Ascot was the first date in her diary every year.
"She and Prince Philip spent lockdown there. It is therefore only fitting that this historic broadcast, the first of his reign, will be made from Windsor."
Mr Fitzwilliams added the speech may also touch upon the topic of the environment and sustainability, issues very close to the monarch, and the Prince of Wales' Earthshot Prize initiative.
The King's Christmas broadcast will be televised on Christmas Day at 3pm.
 Meghan Markle won over Queen with Christmas gift &mdash; 'Played a blinder' 
 Kate 'declined' first invitation to royal Christmas at Sandringham 
 Cast your vote for Express.co.uk Person of the Year 2022 
 Charles ready to kick-off royal Christmas as he arrives in Sandringham 
Mike Tindall rages at 'frustrating' Coronation seating plan
How Prince William reacted with fury when he heard friends' nasty nickname for Kate
Prince William visits 2022 Earthshot winner who makes food packaging from seaweed
The surprising royal who could play peacemaker between Harry and William
Kate and William's parenting style sees George, Charlotte and Louis 'mirror' their parents
Prince Harry has unlikely ally in Princess Anne which could be key to royal reconciliation
Prince Harry and Meghan's 'near-catastrophic car chase' is being 'downplayed'
Princess Charlotte's nickname revealed as Prince William accidentally lets slip sweet name
Princess Kate now 'calls the shots' after ditching 'nervousness and intimidation'
King Charles's new modern monarchy and the 'threats' it faces pinpointed by expert
Phillip Schofield hosting soap awards would make it 'all about him' argues soap star
Maryland backlash as ITV viewers blast 'dreary' and 'slow' Suranne Jones drama
Pep Guardiola issues fresh Man City pledge amid financial investigation
Arsenal drop William Saliba future hint as new home shirt 'leak' emerges
Mercedes tipped to have new Lewis Hamilton 'insurance policy' amid Ferrari speculation
Prince Harry loses his bid to challenge the Home Office's decision over his UK security
Count Tibor Kálnoky: Charles's distant kin whose family inspired Bram Stoker's 'Dracula'
King Charles 'risks family royal rift' over Prince Andrew
Princess Kate shares William's one annoying messy habit that he is a 'nightmare' for
Prince William given new nickname as royal fans swoon over him rowing in new video
Outrage erupts over 'obscene' sex joke about Kate, Princess of Wales on new Amazon show
Buckingham Palace reject pleas to return remains of Ethiopian prince
King Charles is vying to be 'more in tune with ordinary people', says Paul Burrell
Kate's unusual hobby impresses royal fans as Princess of Wales 'keeps surprising us all'
Kate's first curtsy to Queen Camilla caught on camera after report Princess refused to bow
Two historic events in a perfect keepsake
King and Queen arrive at RHS Chelsea Flower Show to tour some very special gardens
Princess Anne 'probably works harder than the King' as she is lauded for 'selfless duty'
King Charles’s awkward microphone gaffe in front of BBC journalist ahead of his wedding
Princess Kate dubbed 'saviour of the monarchy' as she's perfected Queen-in-Waiting role
Harry and Meghan are 'stronger than ever' and will 'last course of time', expert predicts
Angela Kelly makes thinly veiled swipe at the King as she claims she's been 'disrespected'
Kate makes surprise visit to Chelsea Flower Show as she joins first-ever Children's Picnic
King Charles's little-known 'remarkable' Transylvanian bolthole in rural Romanian village
Late Queen's best friend Angela Kelly emotional as her possessions are bundled into lorry
Prince William calls Manchester Arena survivors an 'inspiration' in touching tribute
Sarah Ferguson's 'new low' in business career as company crash sparks loan recall
Prince Harry thought 'maybe Granny intervened' after William turned down wedding plea
King wants Kate and William's children to avoid making 'mistakes he made'
Prince William's touching tribute to Harry and Diana spotted in Waleses Coronation video
Kate treats Prince William like the 'fourth child' as he is 'prone to tantrums'
Party Pieces' owner took control after quick call with 'wonderful' Carole Middleton
William's oar-dacious day out with submariners for mental health
King 'strikes deal to silence close confidante of late Queen'
VOTE: Who is your favourite working royal?
Prince Andrew 'won't leave Royal Lodge' and King Charles is 'powerless'
Prince Harry ‘felt sick’ as William turned down wedding request with four-word reply
Kate and William pass on key trait to their children as expert lifts lid on Prince Louis
Prince Harry's 10-word comment about Meghan after first date
King issued dire advice on strategic move needed to 'save' Royal Family
'She's right at the top': Meghan being lined up for new chat show
Kate and Prince William pave way with new strategy doing Royal Family 'world of good'
Charles could cut off Andrew’s utilities in desperate move to force him out of mansion
Princess Kate cruelly insulted by sexual barb from Amazon Prime's Citadel show
Prince Archie's adorable one word description of view from Montecito home to Meghan
 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
 Short & City breaks 
 Copyright ©2023 Express Newspapers. "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.
Would you like to receive notifications from this site?
