NI Protocol issues can be fixed ahead of Good Friday Agreement landmark – Ahern | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
NI Protocol issues can be fixed ahead of Good Friday Agreement landmark – Ahern
Former taoiseach Bertie Ahern said he understands that unionists and loyalists have concerns about the constitutional position.
Bertie Ahern said ‘a lot of progress’ has been made on NI Protocol issues (Niall Carson/PA)
Sign up to our free Brexit and beyond email for the latest headlines on what Brexit is meaning for the UK
Sign up to our Brexit email for the latest insight
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 has said he believes issues over the 
 Protocol can be resolved ahead of the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement.
Mr Ahern said he was hopeful the anniversary of the agreement will be able to be celebrated in April with a deal on the outstanding protocol issues met.
Talks between the UK and EU to resolve the impasse over the contentious 
 trading arrangements are continuing, with both sides insisting a deal is possible.
“The technical issues on the protocol, I believe, can be sorted out,” Mr Ahern told BBC One’s Sunday Politics Northern Ireland programme.
I'm hopeful that when we get to April, we will be able to genuinely celebrate it and not in the way it is at present
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
“I do understand that unionists and loyalists have concerns about the constitutional position. They do have concerns that have to be worked out and we have to take account of their views and try and find solutions to alleviate the concerns and fears. I think that’s very important.”
The former Fianna Fail leader said “a lot of progress” has been made on the protocol issues.
“Hopefully over the early weeks of next year that can be dealt with,” Mr Ahern added.
“The concern about the constitutional issues … we have to work through with loyalists and unionists, and that hopefully that can happen too.
“So, I’m hopeful that when we get to April, we will be able to genuinely celebrate it and not in the way it is at present.”
Devolved government at Stormont has been in flux since February when the 
 withdrew its first minister from the ministerial executive in protest at Brexit’s Northern Ireland Protocol.
The DUP has insisted it will not allow a return to powersharing until radical changes to the protocol are delivered.
Tributes after death of SAS soldier who stormed Iranian embassy to end siege
Sunak to chair Cabinet as pressure mounts for probe into Braverman claims
Typewriter artist ‘pleasantly surprised’ Burna Boy liked his depiction of him
The region’s largest unionist party has blocked the formation of a new administration following May’s Assembly election and prevented the Assembly meeting to conduct legislative business as part of its protest over the protocol.
It claims the protocol has undermined Northern Ireland’s place within the United Kingdom by creating economic barriers on trade entering the region from Great Britain.
NI Protocol issues can be fixed ahead of Good Friday Agreement landmark – Ahern
NI Protocol issues can be fixed ahead of Good Friday Agreement landmark – Ahern
Bertie Ahern said ‘a lot of progress’ has been made on NI Protocol issues (Niall Carson/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
At least 10% less than RRP across all departments at TK Maxx
20% off app orders using this The Hut promo code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
