Biden’s decision to send tanks to Ukraine is about more than just politics | The Independent
The move provides a significant military boost to Kyiv, writes Kim Sengupta 
 US politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":true,"titleSEO":"US Politics | Latest news, comment and analysis","seoDescription":"Latest updates on Trump, 2020 election, Senate, House and more"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Joe Biden’s decision to send tanks to Ukraine is about more than just politics
The move provides a significant military boost to Kyiv, writes 
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
he decision by the Biden administration to reverse its previous stance and send 
 is a significant political and military move. 
The supply of the M1A1 Abrams has met the German stipulation on Leopard 2 tanks, for Berlin’s own forces – and those of other Nato states using them – to transfer them to Kyiv, with new offensives by both 
 and Ukraine due to begin in the spring. 
The Abrams, the Leopards and the British-supplied Challengers will not, by themselves, win the war for Ukraine; but they will have a major impact on the battlefield and raise the scale and lethality of combat. 
The number of tanks for a decisive tilt against the Russians are not adding up at the moment: although that may change.
Volodymyr Zelensky’s government has repeatedly insisted that it needs 300 modern battle tanks to help defeat the Russians. To put that into context – the UK has a total of 249 Challenger 2s in service and the French have 220 Leclercs, their own main tank, available for deployment. 
The Body in the Woods | An Independent TV Original Documentary
The harrowing discovery at centre of The Independent’s new documentary
The US, it is reported, is prepared to send 31 Abrams: the UK has agreed to send one squadron, 14, of Challenger 2s. Germany, it is reported, will send 14 Leopards, as will Poland. Berlin has also promised more tanks in the future. Norway and Finland are also considering sending Leopards, although in smaller numbers. 
What does make the American decision important is the fact that 
, against apparently the advice of some in the US military, has agreed to supply such offensive armour, something it had not done in the war so far to avoid further escalation by Russian president Vladimir Putin. 
Kyiv hopes that other sophisticated weaponry it is seeking, including combat aircraft, may come next now that the Rubicon has been crossed. Russia's ambassador to the US said the news of the tanks was “another blatant provocation”. 
Washington has been claiming that one reason for not sending the Abrams was that they were unsuitable for the Ukraine war. They were too complex and expensive to operate and maintain. But that appears no longer to be a deciding factor. 
Major General Tim Cross, a former British Army commander and a leading logistics specialist, said: “It is certainly the case that the Americans were saying the Abrams were not right for Ukraine. It will be interesting to see what kind of logistic chain for parts and ammunition, repair facilities, and training of crews, they put in. This will take a great deal of organisation, and thus time. 
“The Ukrainians will have to integrate tanks from different countries. Are they going to get the same type of Leopards from all the contributing Nato countries? They will have to work out interoperability between the Challengers and Abrams and Leopards. 
Germany rejects criticism it watered down language on gas at G7 summit
South Korea, EU agree to boost pressure on Russia, condemn North Korean missile tests
Vatican confirms August trip by pope to Lisbon for World Youth Day, including Fatima stop
“Having the tanks will obviously be of great benefit to the Ukrainians. But I don’t think it’s not going to be decisive for the conflict. The Ukrainians have been very good at static types of warfare and limited offensives. But it is a different proposition carrying out a combined, all-arms operation.” 
Robert Emerson, a security analyst, said: “[It is an] interesting move by Biden, certainly a morale booster for the Ukrainians. We’ll have to see how the Russians react, how they progress with deploying their armour and their Air Force. Quite a few things will play out in the next months."
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Biden’s decision to send tanks to Ukraine is about more than politics
Biden’s decision to send tanks to Ukraine is about more than politics
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
5% off all bookings with this Travelodge discount code
Save £200 on 2023 holidays with this TUI discount code
Up to 7% off bookings with this Barcelo discount code
£15 gift card with selected annual memberships - National Trust discount code
20% off regular test rates with this Hotels.com discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
