Elon Musk claims he skipped Davos because it ‘sounded boring AF’ - but organisers say he wasn’t even invited | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Elon Musk claims he skipped Davos because it ‘sounded boring AF’ - but organisers say he wasn’t even invited
The World Economic Forum says billionaire Elon Musk wasn’t on the guest list for the annual meeting of business executives, global leaders and cultural trend-setters in Davos, Switzerland — despite what the Twitter owner claims
Davos organizers: Musk wasn&#x27;t invited despite what he says
Davos organizers: Musk wasn&#x27;t invited despite what he says
Davos organizers: Musk wasn&#x27;t invited despite what he says
Copyright 2020 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
Davos organizers: Musk wasn&#x27;t invited despite what he says
Copyright 2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 wasn't on the guest list for the annual meeting of business executives, global leaders and cultural trend-setters in 
, Switzerland — despite what the 
Notables from European Union chief Ursula von der Leyen to actor Idris Elba are gathering in the ritzy Alpine town this week to talk about global issues ranging from war to climate change and technology's effects on security. 
Mr Musk wasn't there, though he says he was invited. Forum spokesman Yann Zopf knocked that down Tuesday, saying the last time the Tesla CEO got an invitation was “not this year and not recently — last time in 2015.”
Mr Musk said in a tweet on 22 December: “My reason for declining the Davos invitation was not because I thought they were engaged in diabolical scheming, but because it sounded boring af lol."
Mr Zopf added that “Musk never registered for any annual meeting in Davos.”
Climate activists chant ‘eat the rich’ at Davos summit amid big oil concerns
Tesla’s 2016 video promoting self-driving technology ‘staged’ company’s engineer claims
Elon Musk’s losses earn him a place in the record books. Lessons learned? Not a chance
Mr Musk did not immediately respond to requests from The Associated Press for comment Tuesday.
The gathering has been criticized for a lack of concrete action that emerges after a series of sessions and speeches while the forum itself has been the target of online conspiracy theories from those who believe the forum involves a group of elites manipulating global events for their own benefit.
Plus, Mr Musk might be a bit busy to be palling around with the powerful in snowy Switzerland.
While still grappling with the fallout from buying Twitter last year for $44b, Mr Musk is facing trial over his tweet about taking Tesla private in 2018.
Jury selection begins this week and he'll have to explain his actions under oath in court in San Francisco after tweeting that he had lined up the financing to pay for a $72b buyout of the electric carmaker, which never happened. It culminated in a $40m settlement with US securities regulators that also required him to step down as the company’s chairman. 
He's also planning to step down as CEO but remain owner of Twitter, which he succeeded in taking private last summer but has alienated some users and advertisers with chaotic job cuts and changes to content moderation policies.
Elon Musk says he skipped ‘boring’ Davos - but he wasn’t even invited
Elon Musk says he skipped ‘boring’ Davos - but he wasn’t even invited
Copyright 2020 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Up to 30% off everything with the Samsung Youth discount
£50 cash with friend referrals at Virgin Mobile
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
