Episodes of The Papers to end on BBC News channel | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Episodes of The Papers to end on BBC News channel
The corporation previously announced BBC World News and BBC News Channel will merge to create a single 24-hour TV news channel.
BBC TV and radio programmes and websites like BBC Breakfast, Radio 4’s The Today Programme, Politics Live, Sunday With Laura Kuenssberg and BBC News Online will feature paper reviews and stories (PA)
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
The last episode of BBC News programme The Papers will air on Monday, the corporation has announced.
The regular segment, which sees guests review daily front pages alongside BBC journalists, has been scrapped as part of the broadcaster’s plans to focus on “digital first” content.
Instead, BBC TV and radio programmes and websites like BBC Breakfast, 
 4’s The Today Programme, 
 and BBC News Online will feature paper reviews and stories.
The BBC said in a statement: “We think it is important to feature newspapers and will also continue to invite editors and journalists from across the industry to discuss the news and important issues of the day across the BBC channels.”
The corporation previously announced BBC World News and BBC News Channel will merge to create a single 24-hour TV news channel serving both UK and international audiences.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
 will also end as linear TV channels.
The BBC also plans for local radio stations to share more content and broadcast less programming unique to their areas.
Proposals confirmed by the broadcaster include the loss of 48 jobs across local staffing in 
, amounting to a total reduction of 2%.
The plans will see local programming restricted to weekdays before 2pm and the BBC will produce 18 afternoon programmes across England that will be shared between its 39 stations.
Ten local programmes will then be shared between 6pm and 10pm on weekdays, all day on Saturday and on Sunday mornings, serving areas broadly mirroring existing local TV areas.
In September, the BBC announced that 382 jobs at the World Service will be cut.
The BBC needs to save a further £285 million in response to the announcement in January that the licence fee will be frozen for the next two years.
Princess of Wales told she is ‘unforgettable’ during Chelsea Pensioner lunch
Sinn Fein ‘turning nationalist vote into republican vote’ – Donaldson
Train passengers could lose access to free wifi to cut costs
The corporation has delivered more than £1 billion of savings in the five years to 2021/22.
The last episode of The Papers on the BBC News channel will air on Monday January 2 2023.
Episodes of The Papers to end on BBC News channel
Episodes of The Papers to end on BBC News channel
BBC TV and radio programmes and websites like BBC Breakfast, Radio 4’s The Today Programme, Politics Live, Sunday With Laura Kuenssberg and BBC News Online will feature paper reviews and stories (PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
20% or more off in the AO fridge freezers sale + Next day delivery
At least 10% less than RRP across all departments at TK Maxx
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
