Boris Johnson had ‘£800,000 line of credit while at No 10’ | The Independent
Distant Canadian cousin said to have guaranteed huge credit facility for former PM 
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Boris Johnson had ‘£800,000 line of credit while at No 10’
Distant Canadian cousin said to have guaranteed huge credit facility for former PM 
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 is said to have secured a £800,000 line of credit while prime minister, backed by a millionaire relative who wanted to run a quango. 
Canadian businessman Sam Blyth agreed to guarantee the huge credit facility for his distant cousin in December 2020 before it was taken out in February 2021, a newspaper report claims. 
Mr Blyth was considered, between late 2020 and early 2021 – when the guarantor arrangements were being put into place – for a position as chief executive of the British Council, a non-departmental public body, the 
One source told the paper Mr Johnson had been close to “going broke”, and the line of credit was said to have been made available for his living costs, including divorce payments.
The Cabinet Office’s propriety and ethics team approved the arrangement in December 2020 after Mr Johnson asked for the advice of cabinet secretary Simon Case, the report added. 
Plot to restore Boris Johnson as prime minister splits warring Tories
Keir Starmer vows to slash ‘bureaucratic nonsense’ in NHS
‘Can’t be right’ that ministers enjoy looser rules on financial interests, says standards chief
The latest revelations come after 
revealed a bitter split among warring Conservatives
 over whether Mr Johnson should be restored as leader of the party 
. It was just a few months after the credit arrangement was made that a row broke out about the lavish refurbishment of the flat above No 11 Downing Street by Mr Johnson and his partner. 
Mr Case and Cabinet Office officials are said to have been unaware of Mr Blyth’s application for the quango, having been assured that there were no conflicts of interest.
Mr Blyth, reportedly worth $50m, is said to be a friend of Mr Johnson’s father, 
 with their mothers said to be cousins.
A spokesperson for the former PM said: “Boris Johnson did not in any way assist with, and was unaware of, any application by Sam Blyth, formal or informal, to serve in any position whatever with the British Council, and neither was anybody in No 10 who was acting on his behalf.”
The claims come amid renewed questions over whether Boris Johnson could return to lead the Tories 
They added: “As far as he is aware no one in No 10 either knew about this alleged application or did anything to advance it.”
There is no suggestion of any wrongdoing by Mr Blyth. He told the 
: “I am aware of the statement Boris Johnson is making and can confirm the accuracy of his account.”
A Cabinet Office spokesperson told 
: “Advice was sought, proper process was followed and appropriate safeguards put in place. All ministers are expected to follow the rules as set out in the ministerial code in terms of making declarations and seeking advice as necessary.”
Carrie Johnson reportedly made free use of Mr Blyth’s villa in the Dominican Republic in early 2022, before Mr Johnson and the whole family holidayed there in October.
Mr Johnson has argued that use of the villa did not need to be registered because its free use came from a family member providing a personal benefit.
“All Boris Johnson’s finanical interests are and were properly declared,” said a spokesperson.
It comes as reports suggest Mr Johnson – who currently represents the marginal Uxbridge and South Ruislip constituency – could be planning to seek a “deal” with 
Mr Johnson is reportedly seeking to do a “deal” with current PM Rishi Sunak 
The former PM is said to be willing to back off from a leadership push against his rival in exchange for a safer seat at the next general election.
But Mr Sunak dismissed the idea, telling broadcasters during a visit to Scotland: “I think the former prime minister has declared his intention to stand in his current seat in Uxbridge.”
And a spokesperson for Mr Johnson also rejected the suggestion he could be seeking a different seat, saying: “This is untrue. Boris Johnson is fully supporting the government and is standing in Uxbridge and South Ruislip at the next election.”
Mr Sunak also defended the system for declaring MPs’ donations but did not offer any comment after Mr Johnson received £1m from a Tory donor.
The donation came from Christopher Harborne, a Brexiteer and crypto investor based in Thailand. “In general, we have procedures in place to make sure all donations are declared transparently, which I’m sure is the case here,” Mr Sunak said.
has revealed that a split has emerged among Tory supporters of Mr Johnson over how best to put him back in power.
Lord Cruddas, who is leading the Conservative Democratic Organisation (CDO) group’s push to transfer more power to grassroots members, accused MPs of trying to hoard power.
Boris Johnson declares £1m donation from former Brexit Party bankroller
Boris Johnson staff ‘had sex at No 10 lockdown party’
Tory MP James Duddridge, who said Mr Johnson was “still in play”, added: “The constitution of the party is really quite complex. It is not the answer to our problems”. Another MP called the CDO push “b*****ks”.
But Lord Cruddas said: “It’s not a surprise to hear some MPs don’t want to change the rules, because they hold the balance of power.”
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Boris Johnson had ‘£800,000 line of credit while at No 10’ 
Boris Johnson had ‘£800,000 line of credit while at No 10’ 
The claims come amid renewed questions over whether Boris Johnson could return to lead the Tories 
Boris Johnson had ‘£800,000 line of credit while at No 10’ 
Mr Johnson is reportedly seeking to do a “deal” with current PM Rishi Sunak 
Boris Johnson had ‘£800,000 line of credit while at No 10’ 
Boris Johnson also made use of a villa in the Dominican Republic owned by Sam Blyth 
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Save 10% on Apple smart accessories using this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
