Raab under pressure to bring in law he promised would stop baseless legal threats amid Zahawi row | The Independent
Lib Dems write to justice secretary  
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Raab under pressure over law he pledged would stop ‘baseless’ legal threats amid Zahawi row
Lib Dems write to justice secretary 
Nadhim Zahawi releases statement in response to tax affair claims
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 is under pressure to bring in laws he promised 
 in the wake of the row over 
revealed at the weekend that the 
former chancellor tried to gag this newspaper
 from revealing he was being 
investigated by the National Crime Agency and HMRC last year
In March last year, Mr Raab promised to tackle so-called 
Strategic Lawsuits Against Public Participation 
Now, the Liberal Democrats have written to the justice secretary, and deputy prime minister, to ask where the planned legislation is. 
In the letter, the party’s deputy leader Daisy Cooper wrote that she was “hugely concerned” by the reports in 
and other media about Mr Zahawi’s attempts to stop stories running with threats to sue.
“I hope you will agree that, were a cabinet minister to have appeared to threaten journalists or transparency campaigners, to deter them from publishing factually accurate information, that would be deeply troubling,” she said.
Nadhim Zahawi news - live: Starmer taunts ‘weak’ Sunak as Tory chair fails to show up for PMQs
PMQs full exchange: Starmer and Sunak clash over Zahawi and violence against women
Failure to sack Nadhim Zahawi shows Sunak ‘hopelessly weak’, says Starmer
Sunak defends handling of Zahawi row as pressure on Tory chairman mounts
She added: “Almost a year on from your initial announcement, [your] legislation is still yet to be seen.” 
Last night, Lord Evans, the chair of the committee on standards in public life, criticised the use of legal threats: “If you’re trying to close down a legitimate public debate, I don’t think that lives up to the standards Lord Nolan laid down and which the government has committed itself to. Accountability [and] openness are things which the government says that it wants to be characterising its own behaviour so that I think speaks for itself …
“The sort of attempts, apparent legal attempts, to suppress this story … I don’t think that does live up to the sort of standards that the public would rightly expect.”
The Ministry of Justice has been approached for comment. 
Mr Zahawi is under increasing pressure to quit after 
Rishi Sunak ordered an investigation into his conduct over his tax affairs
 by his ethics adviser, 
Earlier on Wednesday, more senior Conservative figures called on 
 to resign his role as party chair amid the row.
They included influential peer Lord Hayward, who became 
the latest Tory to say Mr Zahawi should step aside
, at least until the inquiry concludes. He warned the row could help “flatline” Tory popularity ahead of the local elections.
And David Gauke, the former Tory cabinet minister, told the 
programme that it was “hard to see how this doesn’t ultimately end in [Zahawi’s] resignation”. 
He also said that if Mr Zahawi was still in post at 12pm, PMQs was going to be “very uncomfortable” for the prime minister.
Mr Zahawi failed to show for PMQs that saw Keir Starmer accuse 
 of being “hopelessly weak” for failing to sack the former chancellor over the tax row.
UK minister Braverman denies &#x27;untoward&#x27; meddling over speeding ticket
Boris Johnson referred to police over fresh claims he broke lockdown rules
Why good news from IMF narrows the path for Labour
The Labour leader said Mr Sunak was “overseeing chaos” and said it was “fairly obvious” that the former chancellor should step aside.
The prime minister rebuffed Mr Starmer’s questions on the saga, saying it occurred before he was prime minister.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Raab under pressure over law to stop ‘baseless’ legal threats
Raab under pressure over law to stop ‘baseless’ legal threats
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
