Blake Hounshell: New York Times political reporter dies suddenly at 44 | The Independent
‘We’ve just lost a valuable colleague and this is a heartbreaking loss for our team’ 
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
New York Times political reporter dies suddenly
‘We’ve just lost a valuable colleague and this is a heartbreaking loss for our team’ 
Blake Hounshell speaks onstage during the 2021 Concordia Annual Summit at Sheraton New York on 21 September 2021 in New York City
Sign up to our Evening Headlines email for your daily guide to the latest news
Sign up to our free US Evening Headlines email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 political journalist Blake Hounshell has died, his family confirmed on Tuesday. He was 44.
are investigating the death as a suicide after identifying the body.
Hounshell’s family said in a statement that he died “after a long and courageous battle with 
 in October 2021 where he oversaw the popular “On Politics” newsletter. Prior to this, he had spent eight years at the Politico and had been the managing editor at Foreign Policy.
“Blake was a dedicated journalist who quickly distinguished himself as our lead politics newsletter writer and a gifted observer of our country’s political scene,”
New this week: David Bowie, &#x27;Fatal Attraction&#x27; and Smokey
Name-that-tune game Heardle dropped by Spotify after a year
Crime author and ‘Heavenly Creatures’ killer Anne Perry dies aged 84
“He became an indispensable and always insightful voice in the report during a busy election cycle,” they added. “Blake was devoted to his family and a friend of many on our politics and Washington teams, who have worked alongside him for many years.
“We’ve just lost a valuable colleague and this is a heartbreaking loss for our team.”
Raised in Pittsburgh and a graduate of Yale University, Hounshell began working in journalism after travelling to Cairo to study Arabic. He joined Foreign Policy magazine in 2006 and returned to Cairo in February 2011 to cover the Arab uprisings.
 obit mentioned that in 2011 he was a finalist for the Livingston Awards for Young Journalists, given by the Wallace House Center for Journalists at the University of Michigan, for his reporting on the Arab Spring uprisings of the early 2010s.
politics editor David Halbfinger said that Hounshell was endowed with “the kind of wide-ranging intellect that made it possible for him to explain anything to anyone”.
There was an outpouring of grief and shock from his former and current colleagues and fellow journalists worldwide.
“I am so shocked and so sad to hear about the tragic death of Blake Hounshell (@NYTBlake @blakehounshell.) I met him in Cairo when I was 22, on the day I got my very first newspaper job. I was excited when he joined The Times and wish I’d spent more time hanging out with him here,” 
“The @politico newsroom is in anguish. Blake Hounshell had a dazzling mind, full of original insights about a vast array of subjects,” John F Harris, a founding editor of 
, wrote on Twitter. “He was a deeply idealistic and curious man with an exhilarating ability to perceive both patterns and contradictions in the news.”
MSNBC anchor Chris Hayes tweeted that Hounshell was “always a smart, curious, very very kind guy. Just devastating news”.
Mary Louise Kelly, host of NPR’s “All Things Considered” wrote: “Struck by the outpouring of praise & grief tonight for ⁦@blakehounshell⁩. Wish we could have told him all this last week, wish he could have heard it. So many among us are fighting mighty battles, and people walk right by. Not unkindly, just unaware.”
Hounshell is survived by his wife, Sandy, and two children.
If you are experiencing feelings of distress, or are struggling to cope, you can speak to the Samaritans, in confidence, on 116 123 (UK and ROI), email jo@samaritans.org, or visit the Samaritans 
 to find details of your nearest branch.
Don Lemon addresses CNN exit after sexism claims
Why did Fox News fire Tucker Carlson? Here are five theories
Tucker Carlson breaks silence over his Fox News firing in video – live
If you are based in the USA, and you or someone you know needs mental health assistance right now, call the National Suicide Prevention Helpline on 1-800-273-TALK (8255). This is a free, confidential crisis hotline that is available to everyone 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
If you are in another country, you can go to 
 to find a helpline near you.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
New York Times political reporter dies suddenly
New York Times political reporter dies suddenly
Blake Hounshell speaks onstage during the 2021 Concordia Annual Summit at Sheraton New York on 21 September 2021 in New York City
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Save 10% on Apple smart accessories using this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
