Jacinda Ardern to step down as New Zealand prime minister | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Jacinda Ardern to step down as New Zealand prime minister
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern says she will not contest this year’s general elections
Jacinda Ardern resigns, saying 'I am human'
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 New Zealand Prime Minister 
 has announced that she will not contest this year’s general elections.
Fighting back tears, Ardern told reporters in 
 that Feb. 7 will be her last day as the country’s leader.
“I am not leaving because it was hard. Had that been the case I probably would have departed two months into the job. I am leaving because with such a privileged role, comes responsibility, the responsibility to know when you are the right person to lead, and also, when you are not. I know what this job takes, and I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It is that simple,” she said.
Ardern faced a tough election campaign this year. Her liberal 
 won reelection two years ago in a landslide of historic proportions, but recent polls have put her party behind its conservative rivals.
Jacinda Ardern to step down as New Zealand prime minister
Jacinda Ardern to step down as New Zealand prime minister
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
