Adam Kinzinger revealed in new role – as CNN political pundit | The Independent
CNN anchor announces Kinzinger’s suprise hiring on air 
 US politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":true,"titleSEO":"US Politics | Latest news, comment and analysis","seoDescription":"Latest updates on Trump, 2020 election, Senate, House and more"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Anti-Trump Republican Adam Kinzinger revealed in new role – as CNN political pundit
CNN anchor announces Kinzinger’s suprise hiring on air 
Related: Adam Kinzinger says Trump is ‘guilty of a crime’ ahead of Jan 6 criminal referrals 
Sign up for the daily Inside Washington email for exclusive US coverage and analysis sent to your inbox
Get our free Inside Washington email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 has been hired by 
 as a senior political commentator.
Mr Kinzinger, 44, a staunch critic of former president Donald Trump, served in the House select committee investigating the Jan 6 Capitol riots. The Illinois representative’s term in 
 ended earlier this week after being a member of the House for over a decade.
“Kinzinger joins CNN with extensive experience in GOP politics, having recently retired from the US 
 after serving six terms representing Illinois’ Sixteenth Congressional District,” the network said in a statement.
His new stint comes at a time CNN is going through changes under new president Chris Licht. He said CNN’s programmes and coverage of politics should represent a wider array of viewpoints.
“Happy to join the team,” Mr Kinzinger tweeted.
Democrats and Republicans in Congress want to help Afghan refugees. Why haven’t they?
G7 urges China to press Russia to end war in Ukraine, respect Taiwan&#x27;s status, fair trade rules
Trump slams DeSantis as damning evidence found in classified documents probe – live
CNN anchor Erin Burnett announced Mr Kinzinger’s hiring in a segment on Wednesday. “I am pleased to welcome [Kinzinger] to CNN. He is appearing tonight in his new role, which is senior political commentator,” she said.
“Congressman, we really are thrilled to have you here on board.”
Mr Kinzinger replied: “It’s great to be on the team, by the way. Thank you. I’m excited.”
 raised concerns about the future of America
 if Mr Trump isn’t criminally charged for his role in the Jan 6 insurrection.
“If this is not a crime, I don’t know what is. If a president can incite an insurrection and not be held accountable, then really there’s no limit to what a president can do or can’t do,” he said.
However, he added that the DOJ will “do the right thing” and charge Mr Trump. “I think the Justice Department will do the right thing. I think he will be charged, and I frankly think he should be,” he said.
The former member of congress in his farewell speech slammed fellow Republicans for sheltering “the ignorant, the racist”. 
“Our leaders today belittle and in some cases justify attacks on the US Capitol as ‘legitimate political discourse’. The once-great party of Lincoln, Roosevelt, and Reagan has turned its back on the ideals of liberty and self-governance,” Mr Kinzinger said. 
Democrats and Republicans in Congress want to help Afghan refugees. Why haven’t they?
G7 urges China to press Russia to end war in Ukraine, respect Taiwan&#x27;s status, fair trade rules
Trump slams DeSantis as damning evidence found in classified documents probe – live
“Instead, it has embraced lies and deceit.”
Mr Kinzinger is a military veteran who has served in the Air Force in both Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom and continues to serve in the Air National Guard.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Anti-Trump Republican Adam Kinzinger revealed in new role
Anti-Trump Republican Adam Kinzinger revealed in new role
Adam Kinzinger served in the House select committee investigating the 6 January 2021 Capitol riots
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Save 10% on Apple smart accessories using this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
