No deadline for ‘thorough’ Nadhim Zahawi investigation, says No 10 | The Independent
Rishi Sunak wants probe to be carried out ‘swiftly’
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
No deadline for ‘thorough’ Nadhim Zahawi investigation, says No 10
Rishi Sunak wants probe to be carried out ‘swiftly’
Nadhim Zahawi should 'stand aside' now, says senior Tory MP
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 has no placed deadline for his ethics advisor’s 
’s tax arrangements, Downing Street has revealed.
No 10 said the prime minister wanted the probe by Sir Laurie Magnus 
 to be carried out “swiftly” but also wanted it to be “thorough”.
Mr Sunak ordered an investigation in Mr Nadhim’s tax affairs after it emerged that the PM had been in the dark about his cabinet minister paying a fine to settle a tax dispute with 
“We haven’t set a timeline for it because whilst we want this to be conducted swiftly, it’s important equally that it is thorough, hence why we’re not restricting to a particular date,” said the PM’s official spokesman.
It is understood Sir Laurie could look at whether Mr Zahawi failed to tell the truth with remarks he made about his tax affairs last summer, and at 
threats Mr Zahawi made against those looking into his arrangements
But No 10 would not share the precise remit the ethics adviser had been given, and would not say whether further details of Mr Zahawi’s tax affairs would be revealed when the report is published.
Nadhim Zahawi – live: Tory chair ‘is toast’ as senior MP calls for him to ‘stand aside’
JK Rowling says Labour has let down trans row MP Rosie Duffield
Jeremy Hunt dampens tax cut hopes as borrowing hits record high
“The investigation looks at any potential breaches of the ministerial code. As you’ll know, I won’t get into being prescriptive about how the advice goes about ascertaining that,” said the No 10 spokesperson.
Asked if Mr Sunak was confident that Mr Zahawi always told him the truth about his tax affairs, the spokesperson said: “I don’t believe there have been discussions between the prime minister and Mr Zahawi on that specific level of detail.”
Former cabinet minister Caroline Nokes became the first Tory to call on Mr Zahawi to resign, saying his tax settlement was “too much of a problem” and would continue to be a distraction for the government.
Tory peer Lord Hayward also said Mr Zahawi should “stand aside” and his position as chair left vacant until the investigation is complete.
“My inclination is to say, ‘Look … let’s stand to stand to one stand’,” the polling expert and peer told LBC – saying he hoped the probe could be done “very rapidly”.
Despite the probe, an ally of Mr Zahawi said on Monday that the ex-chancellor “absolutely” will not be quitting in the face of growing pressure over his settlement.
Mr Zahawi has not yet disclosed the size of the HMRC settlement – reportedly an estimated £4.8m, including a 30 per cent penalty of around £1m. But his spokesman has not denied the reported sums.
Nadhim Zahawi should ‘stand aside’ now, says senior Tory
Home Office minister Chris Philp said earlier on Tuesday that the PM was told there were “no outstanding issues” in relation to Mr Zahawi’s tax affairs when appointing him Tory chair in the autumn.
Asked he could say with a straight face that this was a government of “integrity”, Mr Philp told Times Radio: “Yes, I can,” arguing that the PM had acted “quickly and decisively” on the matter.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
No deadline for ‘thorough’ Zahawi investigation, says No 10
No deadline for ‘thorough’ Zahawi investigation, says No 10
Rishi Sunak and Nadhim Zahawi 
Tim Hammond / No10 Downing Street
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
