Covid-positive China arrivals won’t need to isolate, minister confirms | The Independent
Voluntary tests being done to ‘collect info Chinese government is not sharing’, says Mark Harper
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Covid-positive China arrivals won’t need to isolate, minister confirms
Voluntary tests being done to ‘collect info Chinese government is not sharing’, says Mark Harper
Passengers in the arrivals hall at Heathrow Airport (Aaron Chown/PA)
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 who test positive for 
 will not be forced to quarantine, the transport secretary 
The senior Tory MP’s comments confirmed details – 
 – that testing will be voluntary for those arriving at 
 - the only UK airport with direct flights from China offering tests.
Mr Harper, asked if those who test positive after arriving in the UK will be required to quarantine, told LBC: “No, because what we are doing is we are collecting that information for surveillance purposes.”
Mr Harper – who campaigned against strict Covid controls from the backbenches during the pandemic – added: “The policy for arrivals from China is primarily about collecting information that the Chinese government is not sharing with the international community.”
The cabinet minister said there are “very high levels of vaccination” in the UK as he encouraged older, more vulnerable people to “get their fourth booster shot this winter”.
Under measures announced by health secretary Steve Barclay, passengers flying from China into England from Thursday will be required to take a Covid test before boarding a plane.
Revealed: Covid tests on arrival from China optional as government accused of ‘muddled thinking’
Mick Lynch accuses government of ‘torpedoing’ rail strike talks before Christmas
MPs wear stab vests to meet constituents over safety fears 
The government will also carry out surveillance testing of a sample of passengers from China arriving in the UK to try to spot new variants of the virus which could pose a threat.
has learnt travellers can simply decline the invitation to be tested on arrival and leave the airport, and those who test positive will neither be quarantined or ordered to self-isolate.
The UK government has been urged not to repeat “past failures” and to align its rules with other nations, who have made arrival tests mandatory.
The Liberal Democrats’ health spokesperson Daisy Cooper said: “Government incompetence on dealing with the latest Covid threat is the last thing our overstretched NHS needs right now. This muddled thinking could haunt ministers if they get it wrong.”
Ms Cooper added: “The government’s approach to sampling needs to be brought into line with other countries. Ministers must learn from past failures.”
There are no direct flights from China to Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland but ministers said they are working with the devolved administrations to implement the measures UK-wide.
The move comes as Beijing prepares to start reissuing passports and visas for overseas trips after lifting its zero-Covid controls – a decision that has led to a massive surge in infections.
’s approach a “sensible, balanced proposition” to deal with the potential spread of Covid from China.
“This is about a country, China, which isn’t sharing the health data with the global health system that we expect everybody to do,” he told LBC. “That is why we have put this temporary precautionary measure in place as China opens up its borders.”
What is XBB Covid? The new Omicron variant that has led to surge in cases 
Mr Harper said: “We are doing two things: we are requiring people who fly from China to have a pre-departure test so they have got to show that they are negative before they get on that flight, and when they get to the United Kingdom, the UK Health Security Agency will take a sample of passengers and test them.”
He added: “That is so that we get that information into our health system and we can track the virus that is coming from China.”
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Covid-positive China arrivals won’t need to isolate, minister confirms
Covid-positive China arrivals won’t need to isolate, minister confirms
Passengers in the arrivals hall at Heathrow Airport (Aaron Chown/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
