Fox News mocked over its latest culture war obsession – the ‘woke’ Xbox | The Independent
Fox News hosts continue to fulminate over modest brand changes 
 US politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":true,"titleSEO":"US Politics | Latest news, comment and analysis","seoDescription":"Latest updates on Trump, 2020 election, Senate, House and more"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Fox News mocked over its latest culture war obsession – the ‘woke’ Xbox
Fox News hosts continue to fulminate over modest brand changes 
Fox News host claims M&M's are a distraction for China to take over mineral deposits
Sign up to our Evening Headlines email for your daily guide to the latest news
Sign up to our free US Evening Headlines email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
After getting M&amp;Ms to drop their spokescandies amid right-wing claims that the cartoon chocolate characters weren’t attractive enough, 
 personalities have identified a new target in the culture wars: 
Xbox announced this week that its new consoles will include a default setting to regulates the video game systems’ power usage to make them “
 aware” in an effort to decrease unnecessary emissions.
“Xbox is working to reduce our environmental impact to help us reach 
’s goal of being a carbon negative, water positive, and zero waste company by 2030 by rethinking how we design, build, distribute, and use our products,” a press release from parent company Microsoft and Xbox Wire read. 
Given the state of the 
 crisis, the announcement struck many as a positive step. At Fox News, it received a far chillier reception. 
Sierra Nevada lakes change more in past 100 years than three millennia
How the climate crisis played a role in fueling Hurricane Ida
Against the odds: The fight to save sea turtles in Ras Baridi
“We understand what this is,” Fox News host Jimmy Failla said on Tuesday morning. “It’s not that it’s actually going to offset emissions, okay — the level of reduction is infinitesimal. But they’re trying to recruit your kids into climate politics at an earlier age: make them climate conscious now.” 
The frustration with Microsoft and Xbox echoes longstanding complaints on the right that major corporations have become invested in indoctrinating consumers into liberal cultural politics around gender, race and the climate. 
It wasn’t just Fox News hosts who took issue with the Xbox news. A range of conservative commentators and even elected officials like Sen 
 of Texas also slammed the news, with Mr Cruz tweeting “First gas stoves, then your coffee, now they’re gunning for your Xbox.”
The outrage left a number of Twitter users bemused. 
One Twitter user, Dave Thibault, tweeted: “Apparently game consoles having Power-saving modes is considered part of the “woke agenda to recruit children into climate politics?” Because how else are we going to make people feel bad about saving money on their electricity bill?”
Another, Michael Boccher, noted that the power saving feature has been an option on Xbox consoles for years, even if it has not been the default setting. “This is insane. And I’m a fan of Fox News. This feature has been here for years and is on basically every major system, not just Xbox. Come on man.”
Xbox users’ gaming experience will not be significantly altered by the automatic carbon aware update.
Trump defends CNN over town hall as his ratings for event drop
CNN faces backlash over chaotic Trump town hall event
Fox News hit with new defamation lawsuit after massive settlement
“This one-time update to your power settings will reduce your power consumption while your console is off, and will not affect performance, gameplay, or your console’s ability to receive overnight updates to system, games or apps,” the news release read. 
The release did note that the Xbox One will experience a slower boot time with the energy saving setting selected — though it appears that users can manually switch their console out of energy-saving mode if they so choose. 
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Fox News mocked over its latest culture war obsession: the ‘woke’ Xbox
Fox News mocked over its latest culture war obsession: the ‘woke’ Xbox
Fox News attacks Xbox over its carbon saving console update
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
15% off selected orders over £15 with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
