Tory MP reads out AI-generated speech in Commons ‘first’ | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Tory MP reads out AI-generated speech in Commons ‘first’
Luke Evans, the MP for Bosworth, told the Commons: ‘I think this may be a first’ as he shared a speech created by ChatGPT.
ChatGPT is an AI or artificial intelligence programme (Alamy/PA)
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 MP has read out a parliamentary speech generated by artificial intelligence (AI) as he called for a regulator for algorithms.
, the MP for Bosworth, told the Commons: “I think this may be a first” as he shared a speech compiled by AI programme which had been given the command to write a Churchillian speech on the state of the UK over the last 12 months.
Intervening, Labour’s Kevin Brennan (Cardiff West) asked: “Did he write that himself or was it written by artificial intelligence?”
I think we're missing a trick here because I believe there should be a regulator for algorithms and artificial intelligence to run concurrently and in synergy with the technology that we're developing
Dr Evans replied: “(He) has generally pointed out exactly the point that I’m alluding to, for this speech would have been one you may well have heard in a House but it was actually put together by ChatGPT (Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer) an artificial intelligence run by OpenAI.”
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Speaking on the issue on the final day before 
 adjourn for Christmas, he added: “This year there has been a seismic change in the way in which AI can be used.
“Now AI and algorithms are going to have huge impacts on the labour market, diagnosis, tools, education, society and it needs a far wider debate than today.”
Dr Evans added: “But I think we’re missing a trick here because I believe there should be a regulator for algorithms and artificial intelligence to run concurrently and in synergy with the technology that we’re developing.”
I think in this instance we are all going to have to face up to the fact that we may not be the first members who have used AI to deliver speeches. Someone might have done it already and not fessed up to the House
He finished his speech with an AI-generated rhyming Christmas poem about the Houses of Parliament, including a mention of the Speaker.
Mr Brennan later said a large chunk of his speech was also written using an AI programme.
He joked: “I think in this instance we are all going to have to face up to the fact that we may not be the first members who have used AI to deliver speeches.
“Someone might have done it already and not fessed up to the House. So let’s bear that in mind for a moment… because in reality this technology is with us now and is very real and it has very many positive potential implications.”
Coronation brings Stone of Destiny to England for the first time since 1996
No guarantee on UK evacuation flights once Sudan ceasefire ends – Cleverly
SDLP proposes Stormont ‘triple lock’ to protect NI budget and deliver reform
Responding to Dr Evans’ poem, the Cardiff West MP added: “The one bit of relief I did have in hearing his speech was the poem that came at the end was not exactly 
, but this technology will clearly get better as it develops and it is developing very rapidly.
“Let’s make sure we don’t allow ourselves to all become slaves to the algorithm.”
Tory MP reads out AI-generated speech in Commons ‘first’
Tory MP reads out AI-generated speech in Commons ‘first’
ChatGPT is an AI or artificial intelligence programme (Alamy/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Save 10% on Apple smart accessories using this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
