Deadline nears for Rishi Sunak to decide on Scotland’s gender law | The Independent
He would become the first Prime Minister to trigger Section 35 if he chooses to stand in the way of the SNP’s gender reforms
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Deadline nears for Rishi Sunak to decide on Scotland’s gender law
He would become the first Prime Minister to trigger Section 35 if he chooses to stand in the way of the SNP’s gender reforms
The UK Government is considering whether to block reforms in Scotland for trans people to legally change gender (Lesley Martin/PA)
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 to decide whether to block Scotland’s gender laws will arrive this week as he considers legal advice about its impact.
Multiple reports have suggested that the legal advice the UK Government has received will provide the 
 with the cover he requires to trigger Section 35 of the 
If he does so, he will become the first No 10 incumbent to use the blocking mechanism.
The Scotland Act, which established a devolved Scottish government and parliament, gives Westminster four weeks to consider bills passed by Holyrood that could have an “adverse effect on the operation of the law”.
With the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill passed by MSPs on December 22, the deadline will be reached on Wednesday.
The Bill will allow trans people to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) without the need for a medical diagnosis — a process known as “self-identification”.
Scientists reveal how to spot signs of dementia nine years before diagnosis
Brexit: Protocol deal hopes grow despite ‘significant gaps’ between UK and EU
Boris Johnson had ‘£800,000 line of credit while at No 10’ 
It will also permit 16 and 17-year-olds to apply for a GRC for the first time, and would reduce the amount of time a person has to live in their acquired gender before they can be granted the document.
According to the Financial Times, Mr Sunak — who said during a visit to Scotland last week that he was concerned by the gender law — is preparing to block the bill from entering the statute books, with a decision coming as soon as Monday.
The newspaper reported that the legal advice given to the Conservative Party leader states the Bill passed by Edinburgh “cuts across” UK-wide legislation on equalities.
Our concerns include the protection of single sex spaces, and the checks and balances included in the process of gaining a legal gender recognition certificate
The FT report described Scotland Secretary Alister Jack as being “fully supportive” of an intervention by the Prime Minister.
A UK Government spokeswoman said no decision had been made.
She said officials were closely assessing the impact the law passed by Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon would have on the Equality Act.
“We share the concerns that others – including the Equality and Human Rights Commission and the UN Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women and Girls – have with the Bill, particularly around safety issues for women and children,” said the spokeswoman.
“We are looking closely at these issues, and also the ramifications for the 2010 Equality Act and other UK wide legislation.
“Our concerns include the protection of single sex spaces, and the checks and balances included in the process of gaining a legal gender recognition certificate.
“No final decisions have been made and we are considering our next steps.”
Labour has also aired concerns about the legislation, with the party’s leader referencing both the reduction in age and the potential impact on equalities.
Sir Keir Starmer told the 
 he thought 16 was too young an age for people to decide to legally change their birth gender.
Labour peer Baroness Chakrabarti backed the principles behind the Bill, but warned the Westminster Government “may have a point” on how it impacts upon UK-wide legislation.
The former shadow attorney general and ex-director of the Liberty civil liberties group told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “Whilst I am sympathetic to the change that is made to make the rights of trans people in Scotland I think we may have a clash between the position in the UK-wide legislation and the position in Scotland.”
She said it “may mean – even though I suspect political mischief on the part of the Conservative Government and culture wars – they may have a point, it is arguable at least that what’s happened in Scotland has a potential impact on the legislation as it operates UK-wide”.
But the SNP’s Westminster leader Stephen Flynn said it would be an “outrage” if London did choose to intervene, saying it would amount to the UK Parliament “overstepping massively”.
Meanwhile, the Prime Minister is reportedly set to ban all conversion therapy this week, opting to go further than his recent predecessor Boris Johnson.
The move is being reported as a bid to keep equalities campaigners onside despite Mr Sunak said to being on the verge of intervening to block gender self-identification in Scotland.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Mr Johnson vowed to ban homosexual conversion therapy when prime minister, but decided not to do the same for transgender conversion therapy.
The Daily Telegraph said ministers are set to announce that they plan to “implement a total ban on both forms of conversion” and will make legal changes to enforce the position.
Deadline nears for Rishi Sunak to decide on Scotland’s gender law
Deadline nears for Rishi Sunak to decide on Scotland’s gender law
The UK Government is considering whether to block reforms in Scotland for trans people to legally change gender (Lesley Martin/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
At least 10% less than RRP across all departments at TK Maxx
20% off app orders using this The Hut promo code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
