£80m will be lost to online fraud over 12 days of Christmas, says Labour | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
£80m will be lost to online fraud over 12 days of Christmas, says Labour
The party hit out at the delay in the parliamentary progress of the Online Safety Bill.
Labour has warned that 12 days of Christmas crime and fraud online costs households £76 million (Dominic Lipinski/PA)
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
Nearly £80 million will be lost to online fraud and scams over the 12 days of Christmas, according to 
Analysis by the party of national fraud and cyber crime statistics found that about £76 million could be lost over the 12-day festive period.
It comes as Labour criticised the delay in the parliamentary progress of the Online Safety 
 of letting fraudsters and criminals off the hook.
The party pointed to analysis of police force data, which found that on average there were 312 incidents of online fraud or cyber crime per day in 2019/2020 and 2020/2021 – with the amount lost to fraud equivalent to £6 million per day.
Labour said the original Online Safety Bill, which is still moving through 
 after being hit by delays and amendments, included no reference to fraud or scams at all.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Families already struggling to make ends meet are at risk from online fraud and cyber crimes this Christmas
Overall, the proposed legislation aims to strengthen protections for children from harmful online content and curtail content promoting self-harm and hate speech online.
The current parliamentary session, which had been expected to run to May, is being extended to allow the Government to pass major pieces of legislation such as the Online Safety Bill.
Alex Davies-Jones, Labour’s shadow digital minister, said: “For too long this Government has let online fraudsters and criminals off while victims are let down.
“Despite being the single biggest crime in the UK, the Tory Government doesn’t take fraud seriously. 
 already struggling to make ends meet are at risk from online fraud and cyber crimes this Christmas.
“Thanks to Labour, the Online Safety Bill will strengthen protections against scammers online, but the entire Bill is now at risk because ministers are bowing over to vested interests rather than standing up for consumers.”
A spokesman for the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport said: “This Government is absolutely committed to cracking down on fraud and economic crime, spending an additional £400 million over the next three years to bolster law enforcement’s response.
Astronomers solve the mystery of how quasars are ignited
UK troops to take over Sudan airfield as evacuation flights gather pace
Government took ‘laissez-faire approach’ on multibillion-pound schemes, MPs say
“We have also removed more than 2.7 million online scams in the past year.
“Our world-leading Online Safety Bill, which the Government is committed to passing into law, will also place a duty on big tech firms to tackle a wide range of online fraud, including romance scams and fraudulent ads, to make sure the UK is the safest place in the world to be online.”
£80m will be lost to online fraud over 12 days of Christmas, says Labour
£80m will be lost to online fraud over 12 days of Christmas, says Labour
Labour has warned that 12 days of Christmas crime and fraud online costs households £76 million (Dominic Lipinski/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
10% off selected orders over £15 with this eBay voucher code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
