Keir Starmer to invoke Blair as he tells Davos the UK is ‘open for business’ | The Independent
Labour leader to meet bosses of Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan and BlackRock  
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Keir Starmer to invoke Blair as he tells Davos the UK is ‘open for business’
Labour leader to meet bosses of Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan and BlackRock 
Keir Starmer clashes with Rishi Sunak over NHS ‘chaos’ at PMQs
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 as he tells the super rich in 
 the UK is “open for business” on Thursday.
The Labour leader and his shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves will point to the economic record of the last Labour government as they stress they want to attract more overseas business investment to Britain. 
Rubbing shoulders with the global elite will be seen as a way for Sir Keir to draw a line under accusations that his party has been anti-business in the past. He is due to meet the CEOs of Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan, who Mr Blair went to work for after he left office, and BlackRock, who once employed George Osborne. He is also expected to meet the Irish prime minister Leo Varadkar as well as a former ally of David Cameron, the Dutch pm Mark Rutte. 
Boris Johnson’s comeback risks a 1997-style defeat for the Tories, former Brexit Secretary warns 
Tony Blair has a point – Labour’s ‘defect at birth’ was its link with the trade unions
 The Labour pair will not have to compete with Rishi Sunak or Jeremy Hunt at this year’s World Economic Forum event in Switzerland, as neither are attending.
The government is instead represented by cabinet ministers Grant Shapps and Kemi Badenoch, although former Conservative prime minister Boris Johnson is also there. Sir Keir will be the first Labour leader to attend the meeting at the Swiss ski resort since Ed Miliband. While in Davos he will criticise the Tory government’s record on growth, a sore spot after the crisis left by former Tory pm Liz Truss’s attacks on her own party’s failings in that area. 
Ms Truss and her allies this week launched a new ‘Conservative Growth Group’ in parliament to keep pressure up on Mr Sunak over the issue. 
As Sir Keir landed in Davos, Labour said that when the party was last in power the UK accounted for an average of 8 per cent of world foreign direct investment, but since 2010 that number has fallen to 4 per cent. 
Labour want to use the event to promote Labour’s Green Prosperity Plan, which it says will allow the UK to lead the world on some of the green industries of the future. 
Ahead of the trip Ms Reeves said: “With Labour in government, Britain will be open for business. We have the ambition and the practical ideas to have our country lead on the global stage again, especially in those green industries of the future that are so vital for our energy security. 
Bankers’ bonuses will drop to reflect performance, JP Morgan chief says
Taoiseach says some billionaires are all ‘fur coat and no knickers’
Brexit to blame for collapse of Britishvolt, says ex-Tory leader William Hague 
“We will restore economic growth to the UK, improving living standards and creating jobs, and bring global investors back to drive our economy forwards – all built on the rock of economic stability and certainty. 
“Labour will work in partnership with business to boost investment in the UK economy, to make sure the jobs of the future are in the UK, and to ensure the UK is a world leader in the climate transition.”
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Keir Starmer to invoke Blair as he tells Davos UK ‘open for business’
Keir Starmer to invoke Blair as he tells Davos UK ‘open for business’
Sir Keir Starmer attended a Brexit Business Working Group breakfast at KPMG offices in Belfast (Liam McBurney/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
