UK sanctions Iran’s prosecutor general after execution of British-Iranian Alireza Akbari | The Independent
Iran has also summoned the British ambassador to address UK “meddling” amid backlash over Mr Akbari’s death 
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
UK sanctions Iran’s prosecutor general over execution of British-Iranian Alireza Akbari
Iran has also summoned the British ambassador to address UK “meddling” amid backlash over Mr Akbari’s death 
MP calls Iran’s activities ‘heinous’ after execution of British-Iranian Alireza Akbari
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
The UK has sanctioned Iran’s prosecutor general after Tehran carried out the execution of British-Iranian national. 
Foreign secretary James Cleverly said the government was “holding the regime to account for its appalling human rights violation” following the death of Alireza Akbari.
Following condemnation of the killing by Rishi Sunak, the Iranian foreign ministry summoned the British ambassador over what it called the UK’s “meddling in Iran’s national security realm”, Iran state news agency IRNA reported.
Alireza Akbari was hanged by the Iran regime amid ongoing anti-regime protests 
Earlier on Saturday, Britain had described the execution by Iran of British-Iranian national Alireza Akbari as barbaric and said it would not go unpunished. 
Writing on Twitter, Mr Cleverly said: “The UK has sanctioned Iran’sProsecutor General.
Rishi Sunak condemns ‘callous and cowardly’ execution of British-Iranian Alireza Akbari
Alireza Akbari: Tory MP condemns Iran’s ‘heinous’ execution of British-Iranian dual national
“Sanctioning him today underlines our disgust at Alireza Akbari’s execution,” he continued. The Prosecutor General is at the heart of Iran’s use of the death penalty.
“We’re holding the regime to account for its appalling human rights violations.”
Iran’s Mizan news agency, associated with the country’s judiciary, announced Mr Akbari’s hanging without saying when it happened. However, there were rumors he had been executed days earlier.
Foreign Secretary James Cleverly has condemned the killing 
Iran has alleged, without providing evidence, that Mr Akbari served as a source for MI6. A lengthy statement issued by Iran’s judiciary claimed he had received large sums of money, his British citizenship and other help in London for providing information to the intelligence service.
However, Iran long has accused those who travel abroad or have Western ties of spying, often using them as bargaining chips in negotiations.
Mr Akbari, who ran a private think tank, is believed to have been arrested in 2019, but details of his case only emerged in recent weeks. 
Mr Akbari is believed to have been detained since 2019 
Those accused of espionage and other crimes related to national security are usually tried behind closed doors, where rights groups say they do not choose their own lawyers and are not allowed to see evidence against them.
Iranian state television aired a highly edited video of Mr Akbari discussing the allegations, footage that resembled other claimed confessions that activists have described as coerced confessions.
Braverman announces crackdown on foreign students bringing family to UK
Bank of England admits it made errors in inflation forecasts
All the MPs standing down at the next general election as Dominic Raab to quit
The BBC Farsi-language service aired an audio message from him on Wednesday, in which he described being tortured.“By using physiological and psychological methods, they broke my will, drove me to madness and forced me to do whatever they wanted,” Mr Akbari said in the audio. 
“By the force of gun and death threats they made me confess to false and corrupt claims.”
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
UK sanctions Iran prosecutor general after British-Iranian’s execution
UK sanctions Iran prosecutor general after British-Iranian’s execution
Alireza Akbari was hanged by the Iran regime amid ongoing anti-regime protests 
UK sanctions Iran prosecutor general after British-Iranian’s execution
Foreign Secretary James Cleverly has condemned the killing 
UK sanctions Iran prosecutor general after British-Iranian’s execution
Mr Akbari is believed to have been detained since 2019 
UK sanctions Iran prosecutor general after British-Iranian’s execution
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
