Suella Braverman tells Holocaust survivor she won’t apologise | The Independent
Home Office asked charity Freedom From Torture to take down edited video show Home Secretary’s response 
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Watch in full as Suella Braverman tells Holocaust survivor she won’t apologise for migrant rhetoric
Home Office asked charity Freedom From Torture to take down edited video show Home Secretary’s response 
Holocaust survivor confronts Suella Braverman over 'dehumanising' language used about refugees
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
Longer footage of Suella Braverman telling a Holocaust survivor she won’t apologise for her rhetoric on immigration has been released. 
It comes after the Home Office asked for an edited clip, which showed Joan Salter confronting the Home Secretary during a meeting in her Fareham constituency, to be taken down. 
Freedom From Torture, the charity that posted the tweet viewed more than 20 million times, has refused and hit back at suggestions it “misrepresented” the encounter. 
Suella Braverman has faced criticism for her use of language about migrants 
Ms Salter, 83, had asked: “I am reminded of the language used to dehumanise and justify the murder of my family and millions of others. “Why do you find the need to use that kind of language?”
In the full clip Ms Braverman thanks Ms Salter for her question before going on to explain her own family was not born in Britain, and that they owed everything to this country.
Charity refuses to delete clip of Holocaust survivor confronting Home Secretary
Holocaust survivor confronts Suella Braverman over ‘dehumanising’ language used about refugees
Home Secretary ‘won’t apologise’ to Holocaust survivor over ‘invasion’ rhetoric
But later she adds: “I won’t apologise for the language that I have used to demonstrate the scale of the problem. I see my job as being honest with the British people and honest for the British people.
“I’m not going to shy away from difficult truths nor am I going to conceal what is the reality that we are all watching.”
Freedom From Torture said they were approached by the Home Office, by phone and on social media, to take the edited video down.
Survivor Joan Salter has been been recognised for her work in education on the Holocaust 
A statement from the Home Office posted on Twitter on Saturday afternoon said the short clip had been “heavily edited” and did not “reflect the full exchange”.
But Sonya Sceats, Chief Executive at Freedom from Torture told The Independent: “We edited it because she [Suella Braverman] had a lot of preparatory remarks before she actually answered the question.
“For the version that we put on social media, we cut straight to the answer that she provided to Joan’s question. It was just abridged.”
Ms Sceats said that the charity took “really strong issue” with the idea it was misleading as the version of the video posted to Twitter “provided Suella Breverman’s answer to the question that Joan asked her”.
“We challenge the Home Office to explain to us, and to the British public, what they consider was misleading,” Ms Sceats added.
Ms Salter, who has been recognised with an MBE for her work on Holocaust education, repeated her concerns about Ms Braverman’s tone in interviews over the weekend. 
“I feel very strongly that the Holocaust ended in the death camps but it started with words, with othering the Jewish people, blaming them for all the problems in Germany, and I am afraid that the actions and words of our home secretary is very, very similar,” she told Sky News. 
“She needs to look into her humanity rather than dehumanising a group of people many of whom are absolutely desperate.”
Chief Executive of Freedom from Torture Sonya Sceats has challenged the Home Office to explain what they consider was “misleading” 
The statement posted on Twitter by the Home Office read: “The Home Secretary listened carefully to the testimony. She thanked her for sharing her story.
“The home secretary also expressed her sympathy and set out why it is important to tackle illegal migration.
“Since the footage misrepresents the interaction about a sensitive area of policy, we have asked the organisation who posted the video to take it down.”
Ms Sceats said that the questions that Ms Salter was asking are “incredibly serious” and that the Home Secretary “missed an opportunity to show that she has reflected on the appropriateness of the language and to provide an apology. 
“Instead of doing so, she doubled down on this offensive language,” she said. “We would say to Rishi Sunak, ‘is this acceptable for a minister holding a high Office of State to be responding to a survivor of the Holocaust in these terms, and is it acceptable for her to be using this sort of inflammatory language to describe people like those we help at Freedom From Torture, who are fleeing from torture and seeking safety here in Britain?’
Child sex abuse inquiry chair slams government’s ‘disappointing’ response
Tory MPs urge Sunak to sack Braverman if she broke rules over speeding offence
Tory former minister warns of ‘chaos’ over Government immigration plans
“I think that there are serious questions to answer....about whether it is appropriate for the Home Office to be using its corporate channels, including its Twitter channel, to be pressuring an NGO for sharing public comments that the Home Secretary has made”. 
A spokesperson for the Home Office told the Independent: “We won’t be commenting any further, and stand by our statement on Twitter.”
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Watch Braverman’s exchange with Holocaust survivor in full
Watch Braverman’s exchange with Holocaust survivor in full
Suella Braverman has faced criticism for her use of language about migrants 
Watch Braverman’s exchange with Holocaust survivor in full
Survivor Joan Salter has been been recognised for her work in education on the Holocaust 
Watch Braverman’s exchange with Holocaust survivor in full
Chief Executive of Freedom from Torture Sonya Sceats has challenged the Home Office to explain what they consider was “misleading” 
Watch Braverman’s exchange with Holocaust survivor in full
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
20% or more off in the AO fridge freezers sale + Next day delivery
At least 10% less than RRP across all departments at TK Maxx
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
