Glass Onion: Rian Johnson says popular comparison with Ed Norton’s character is a ‘horrible accident’ | The Independent
Critics and viewers have likened Norton’s character to divisive Tesla founder Elon Musk 
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Glass Onion: Rian Johnson says popular comparison with Ed Norton’s character is a ‘horrible accident’
Critics and viewers have likened Norton’s character to divisive Tesla founder Elon Musk 
Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery trailer
Get our free weekly email for all the latest cinematic news from our film critic Clarisse Loughrey
Get our The Life Cinematic email for free
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 is well aware of the “bizarre” similarities between 
Since the release of the director’s 
 critics and viewers have called out the uncanny parallels
 between Norton’s tech billionaire Miles Bron and Twitter’s new overlord.
However, according to Johnson, the perfect timing of the film’s premiere alongside Musk’s Twitter drama is just a “horrible accident”.
“It’s so weird. It’s very bizarre,” Johnson recently told 
. “I hope there isn’t some secret marketing department at Netflix that’s funding this Twitter takeover.”
The director acknowledged that “there’s a lot of general stuff about that sort of species of tech billionaire that went directly into [the movie]”.
Kanye West: Former business manager says rapper is ‘missing’ after failing to locate him for lawsuit
Netflix codes: How to access hidden movies and TV shows on streaming service
9 sex scenes the actors are mortified about
“But obviously, it has almost a weird relevance in exactly the current moment,” Johnson added. “A friend of mine said, ‘Man, that feels like it was written this afternoon.’ And that’s just sort of a horrible, horrible accident, you know?”
Following the film’s release, conservative pundit Ben Shapiro sharply criticised Johnson’s “politics”, for being “as lazy as his writing”.
“His take on the universe is that Elon Musk is a bad and stupid man, and that anyone who likes him – in media, politics, or tech – is being paid off by him,” Shapiro wrote on Twitter.
Daniel Craig and Janelle Monáe in ‘Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery'
While a slew of other critics and viewers have drawn similar comparisons, 
many have mocked Shapiro for his lengthy diatribe
Access unlimited streaming of movies and TV shows with Amazon Prime Video 
Sign up now for a 30-day free trial
which has been a major hit with audiences
, sees the return of Daniel Craig as Detective Benoit Blanc, who’s invited to Bron’s private Greek island, along with seven of Bron’s other close friends.
When one of them turns up dead, Detective Blanc is tapped in to solve the case.
’s four-star review of the whodunnit sequel here
 list of all the celebrity cameos you may have missed here
Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery
 is out now on Netflix.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Rian Johnson says popular Glass Onion theory is an ‘accident’
Rian Johnson says popular Glass Onion theory is an ‘accident’
Daniel Craig and Janelle Monáe in ‘Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery'
Rian Johnson says popular Glass Onion theory is an ‘accident’
Edward Norton in ‘Glass Onion’ and Elon Musk
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
15% off orders - Zavvi discount code
25% off everything with this Red Letter Days discount code
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Up to 30% off everything with the Samsung Youth discount
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
