Queen Elizabeth pressed Meghan Markle for opinion on Trump in 2016, book claims | The Independent
Prince Harry reveals how the future Duchess of Sussex handled the hot-button question at her first meeting with the late queen
 US politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":true,"titleSEO":"US Politics | Latest news, comment and analysis","seoDescription":"Latest updates on Trump, 2020 election, Senate, House and more"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Queen Elizabeth pressed Meghan Markle for opinion on Trump in 2016, book claims
Prince Harry reveals how the future Duchess of Sussex handled the hot-button question at her first meeting with the late queen
Lone fan queues outside Waterstones Piccadilly as Prince Harry's book hits UK shelves
Sign up for the daily Inside Washington email for exclusive US coverage and analysis sent to your inbox
Get our free Inside Washington email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
Queen Elizabeth II put the future Duchess of Sussex on the spot at their first meeting by asking her opinion of then-presidential candidate Donald 
Harry revealed his grandmother’s interest in Mr Trump while describing how the Duchess, then known as 
, first encountered the late monarch during an impromptu meeting at Prince Andrew’s home, Royal Lodge. Harry had brought her there to meet Sarah, Duchess of York, because his then-girlfriend was already acquainted with her daughter, Princess Eugenie, and the Princess’ then-boyfriend (now-husband) Jack Brooksbank.
He described the first encounter between the late Queen and the future Duchess as “all very pleasant,” and noted that the meeting took place in late 2016, just before Mr Trump’s shocking victory over former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Mr Trump was apparently on his grandmother’s mind, prompting her to ask the American actress her opinion of the future head of state.
Prince Harry news – live: Meghan’s seven-word retort to William revealed as Spare hits shelves
‘I thought my family were weird’: Solo Prince Harry fan queues outside Waterstones to buy memoir
Spare: Prince Harry’s book marked down to half price on day of release
“Granny even asked Meg what she thought of Donald Trump,” he wrote. 
The Prince added that Meghan “thought politics a no-win game” and described how she deftly changed the subject to Canada, where she’d been living while filming the television show 
In response, he said the late Queen “squinted” and replied to Meghan: “I thought you were American”.
The future Duchess replied: “I am, but I’ve been living in Canada for seven years for work”.
Harry said his future wife’s response appeared to have pleased his grandmother because Canada is part of the Commonwealth.
“Granny looked pleased. Commonwealth. Good, fine,” he wrote.
The late monarch would meet Mr Trump two years later when he came to the UK for his first visit there as the American head of state. The then-president raised some eyebrows by breaking royal protocol when he wandered in front of the Queen while reviewing troops outside Windsor Castle. He also appeared to fail to deliver a customary bow when the two first met earlier that day.
A spokesperson for the ex-president did not immediately respond to a request for comment from 
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Queen Elizabeth pressed Meghan for opinion on Trump, book claims
Queen Elizabeth pressed Meghan for opinion on Trump, book claims
Britain's Queen Elizabeth II (L) talks with US President Donald Trump during an event to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the D-Day landings, in Portsmouth, southern England, on June 5, 2019
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
