Sunak welcomes ‘valuable’ talks amid doubts NHS crisis can be fixed by spring | The Independent
The prime minister hosted health leaders including England’s chief medical officer Professor Sir Chris Whitty.
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Sunak welcomes ‘valuable’ talks amid doubts NHS crisis can be fixed by spring
The prime minister hosted health leaders including England’s chief medical officer Professor Sir Chris Whitty.
Doctor explains how NHS hospital corridors are used as part of emergency department
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 has welcomed emergency talks aimed at alleviating the crisis in the 
 as “highly valuable”, but doubts were raised as to whether it can be tackled this winter.
 hosted health leaders including England’s chief medical officer Professor Sir 
 and NHS England chief executive Amanda Pritchard in Downing Street.
Labour said the talks, joined by Health Secretary 
 and Treasury minister John Glen, were a “talking shop” and patients “deserve more”.
This crisis has been a decade or more in the making and we are now paying the high price for years of inaction and managed decline
Mr Sunak was warned that the rare weekend meeting is unlikely to ease the pressure on frontline services, which was being blamed on “years of inaction”.
Budget 2022: Hunt says UK in recession as he announces huge tax rises
Jeremy Hunt increases energy windfall tax in budget
Jeremy Hunt freezes tax allowances and hits 45p rate payers
Leaving the “NHS Recovery Forum”, consultant physician James Dunbar told reporters he was “confident that action will be taken” but not optimistic the crisis would be dealt with before spring.
“These are difficult problems to fix though, so I think it’s unlikely we’ll have it sorted by the end of this winter,” he said.
Royal College of Emergency Medicine president Adrian Boyle said the crisis is “fixable” as he welcomed emergency care being “recognised as a priority”.
A government spokeswoman said Mr Sunak and his health ministers “found today’s discussions highly valuable for sharing ideas and best practices that could be spread nationwide to improve care for patients throughout the country”.
“Next steps will be set out in due course,” the official added.
Senior doctors say the NHS is on a knife edge, with many A&E units struggling to keep up with demand and trusts and ambulance services declaring critical incidents.
A wave of strikes and high levels of flu and coronavirus are adding to huge pressures in the health service.
Discharge rates fell to a new low in England last week, with only a third of patients ready to be released from hospital actually leaving.
The day’s focus was on four crucial issues: social care and delayed discharge, urgent and emergency care, elective care and primary care.
NHS Confederation chief executive Matthew Taylor said there are “no silver bullets” to solve the crisis after “decades of underinvestment”.
“This crisis has been a decade or more in the making and we are now paying the high price for years of inaction and managed decline,” he said ahead of the meeting which he was not invited to.
“Patients are experiencing delays that we haven’t seen for years.”
The prime minister this week made reducing NHS waiting lists one of his key pledges over the next two years.
Shadow health secretary Wes Streeting said: “After 13 years of mismanaging the NHS, this is the equivalent of the arsonists convening a forum with the fire brigade to put out the inferno they started.
“Patients deserve more than a talking shop.
“Clinical leaders and health experts have been sounding the alarm for months about the crisis the NHS is facing, so why has it taken so long for Rishi Sunak and Steve Barclay to decide to listen to them?”
I have put out an olive branch to get us to the table, I’m asking the Prime Minister now to meet the RCN halfway. The ball is firmly in the Prime Minister’s court
On Monday, Mr Barclay will meet union leaders to discuss NHS pay for the next financial year in talks that are unlikely to avert planned strikes.
Royal College of Nursing general secretary Pat Cullen told the Prime Minister to “grasp the nettle and negotiate with nurses” to prevent industrial action.
She told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “We’ll of course go to the meeting and make the case for nursing in all forums, but it’s sadly not what’s going to prevent strike action that’s planned for 10 days’ time.
New treatment ‘can help people stop taking opioid painkillers for chronic pain’
Free tickets released for nation’s heroes to attend Camilla’s literary festival
Eight out of 10 adults support ban on advertising junk food to children
“I have put out an olive branch to get us to the table, I’m asking the Prime Minister now to meet the RCN halfway. The ball is firmly in the Prime Minister’s court.”
A Department of Health and Social Care source said the Health Secretary plans to host an “honest and constructive conversation about what is affordable for NHS pay in the coming year”.
Sunak welcomes ‘valuable’ talks amid warning NHS crisis will persist
Sunak welcomes ‘valuable’ talks amid warning NHS crisis will persist
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak (Henry Nicholls/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
