Rishi Sunak ‘bows to Tory rebels’ to boost online safety for children | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Rishi Sunak ‘bows to Tory rebels’ to boost online safety for children
Fifty MPs backed a change to the Online Safety Bill that would see tech bosses jailed for failures to protect minors.
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 appears to have bowed to pressure from rebel Tory 
 to toughen up punishments for social media bosses who fail to protect children from harm online.
The Prime Minister was facing a major backbench rebellion as 50 MPs put their names to an amendment to the Online Safety 
 that would make tech chiefs criminally liable if they do not block minors from seeing damaging content on their platforms.
Michelle Donelan has reached a deal with rebels after talks over the weekend, according to a source close to the Culture Secretary, allowing the Prime Minister to avoid an embarrassing defeat in the Commons.
The source suggested Ms Donelan likes the intention of the amendment, but the wording “wasn’t quite right”.
It is understood the rebels have dropped the amendment ahead of its return to the Commons on Tuesday and the Culture Secretary is working with them to table it in the House of Lords “in a more workable format”.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
It marks the third time Mr Sunak has backed down in the face of uprisings on his back benches since entering No 10 in October, having ditched onshore wind farms and housing planning reforms.
Former cabinet ministers including ex-home secretary Priti Patel and former Conservative leader Sir 
 are among those backing the change to the Online Safety Bill.
With Labour supporting it too, failure to find a compromise would have seen Mr Sunak on course for his first major defeat in the Commons.
The rebel amendment looks to introduce a new clause into the Online Safety Bill to “make it an offence for the provider of a user-to-service not to comply with the safety duties protecting children” which are set out in the draft law.
In its current form, the new internet safety law would require tech companies to remove illegal material from their platforms, with a particular emphasis on protecting children from seeing harmful content.
Social media platforms and other user-generated, content-based sites that break the rules would face large fines from the sector’s new regulator, Ofcom.
But the proposed law would only hold tech bosses liable for failing to give information to the watchdog.
Sir Iain said current protection offered by the draft legislation was “weak” and children needed greater safeguards against seeing “extreme pornography” and material about suicide.
The NSPCC has been helping drive a campaign to have managers made criminally responsible for failing to offer protection to youngsters.
Richard Collard, associate head of child safety online policy at the children’s charity, said: “By committing to senior manager liability the Culture Secretary has sent a strong and welcome signal that she will give the Online Safety Bill the teeth needed to drive a culture change within the heart of tech companies that will help protect children from future tragedies.
“The Government has rightly listened to the concerns raised by MPs and we look forward to working with Ministers to ensure the final legislation holds senior managers accountable in practice if their products continue to put children at risk of preventable harm and sexual abuse.”
London’s Vagina Museum meets fundraising goal for new premises
No reason why Stormont Assembly should not meet next week – Bertie Ahern
Police watchdog to assess whether to launch probe into Cardiff deaths crash
Ian Russell, the father of schoolgirl 
, who killed herself after viewing harmful material on social media, said the threat of imprisonment is “the only thing” that will make the bosses “put safety near the top of their agenda”.
“I think that’s a really important thing in terms of changing the corporate culture at these platforms,” he told BBC’s Newsnight.
Rishi Sunak ‘bows to Tory rebels’ to boost online safety for children
Rishi Sunak ‘bows to Tory rebels’ to boost online safety for children
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
