Plans unveiled for nuclear medicine plant to make cancer-fighting chemicals | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Plans unveiled for nuclear medicine plant to make cancer-fighting chemicals
The Welsh Government believes the laboratory could help address a future supply crisis for the cancer-beating substances.
Medical radioisotopes are used in the detection and treatment of diseases such as cancer (Welsh Government/PA)
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
Plans to build the UK’s first nuclear medicine facility producing cancer-fighting substances have been unveiled by the 
 would produce medical radioisotopes which are critical to the diagnosis and treatment of diseases such as cancer as they are used during scans and in radiotherapy.
The UK has no domestic supply of the majority of radioisotopes, relying on imports from European facilities.
I am calling on the UK Government to co-operate in supporting our efforts, since this development benefits and supports future cancer diagnostics and treatment right across the UK
A number of sites have closed and it is believed that by 2030 the UK could have no medical radioisotopes, with a significant impact on patient care.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
 and Northern Ireland, while improving the Welsh economy through the creation of high and low-skilled jobs over several decades.
 said: “Today, I am pleased to set out a clear ambition for creating another major technological cluster here in Wales, while also tackling a fast-approaching crisis for medical treatment right around the world.
“This project will be vital in helping us deliver on our commitments to creating a healthier and more prosperous Wales, by creating the opportunities people need to make their futures here in Wales.”
He said funding for the project needs to be secured from different sources including the UK Government, but added that the Welsh Government had invested in a technical feasibility study.
Mr Gething said: “The scale of investment needed to bring Project Arthur to life is considerable.
“I am calling on the UK Government to co-operate in supporting our efforts, since this development benefits and supports future cancer diagnostics and treatment right across the UK.
“Now is the time for decisive action and commitment. The implications of not acting will be counted in human lives and in long-term economic pressure on health services, through unsustainable health treatments.
London’s Vagina Museum meets fundraising goal for new premises
No reason why Stormont Assembly should not meet next week – Bertie Ahern
Police watchdog to assess whether to launch probe into Cardiff deaths crash
“We are now experiencing unprecedented economic pressures – but that is not an excuse for failing to plan for this clear future need. We must prevent a future health and economic crisis.
“I’m confident our Project Arthur facility can become a global centre of excellence and a source of pride for Wales and the wider UK for many decades.”
Plans unveiled for nuclear medicine plant to make cancer-fighting chemicals
Plans unveiled for nuclear medicine plant to make cancer-fighting chemicals
Medical radioisotopes are used in the detection and treatment of diseases such as cancer (Welsh Government/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
20% or more off in the AO fridge freezers sale + Next day delivery
At least 10% less than RRP across all departments at TK Maxx
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
