Conservative MP stripped of party whip after he linked Covid vaccine to Holocaust | The Independent
Andrew Bridgen suspended pending investigation 
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Conservative MP stripped of party whip after he linked Covid vaccine to Holocaust
Andrew Bridgen suspended pending investigation 
John Bercow and Andrew Bridgen in furious House of Commons row
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 has been stripped of the party whip after he appeared to link the rollout of 
 vaccinations to the Holocaust. 
 denounced the comments as “completely unacceptable”. 
 said Mr Bridgen had “crossed a line” and had “caused great offence in the process”.
Mr Bridgen claimed that Covid vaccines were “causing serious harms” and said he had been told the programme was “the biggest crime against humanity since the holocaust”.
Mr Hart said: “The vaccine is the best defence against Covid that we have. Misinformation about the vaccine causes harm and costs lives. I am therefore removing the Whip from Andrew Bridgen with immediate effect, pending a formal investigation.”
On Wednesday Mr Bridgen tweeted an article on vaccines, adding: “As one consultant cardiologist said to me, this is the biggest crime against humanity since the Holocaust.”
Partygate: Boris Johnson joked No 10 party was ‘most unsocially distanced in UK’
NHS: 14 Health unions to boycott pay review until strikes dispute resolved
Anti-strike legislation ‘extraordinary waste of time’, says ex-Tory health secretary
Earlier this week the North West Leicestershire MP was suspended from the Commons for five days. MPs backed the measure after he was found to have displayed a "very cavalier" attitude to the rules in a series of lobbying breaches.
Will Moy, chief executive at anti-misinformation site Full Fact, said “Andrew Bridgen has put lives at risk for months by being enabled to peddle health misinformation in Parliament. 
“It is right that the Conservative Party took action after Andrew Bridgen’s shameful comments online earlier today. But it is unacceptable that an MP has been allowed to repeatedly make dangerous, false claims about vaccines for months without consequence. 
“Globally, we have seen what happens when we empower conspiracy theorists to spread dangerous health misinformation, which costs lives. 
“Are the Conservative Party seriously going to consider endorsing an MP who behaves like this at the next election?”
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Conservative MP Andrew Bridgen stripped of the party whip 
Conservative MP Andrew Bridgen stripped of the party whip 
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Save 10% on Apple smart accessories using this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
