Two-thirds of women MPs have witnessed sexist conduct in Parliament | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Two-thirds of women MPs have witnessed sexist conduct in Parliament
The Fawcett Society said ‘toxic’ Westminster culture risks driving women out of politics.
The Houses of Parliament (Anthony Devlin/PA)
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 say they have witnessed sexist behaviour in Parliament, according to new research, amid warnings that a “toxic” culture risks driving women out of politics.
A survey commissioned by the Fawcett Society found just 37% of women MPs believed the environment at 
 to be “inclusive for people like me” compared to a majority of their male counterparts (55%).
In the course of the past five years, 69% of women MPs said they had witnessed sexist conduct, as against 49% of all MPs.
Over nine-out-of-ten women MPs (93%) said online abuse or harassment had a negative impact on how they felt about being a parliamentarian compared to 76% of male MPs
It’s just not acceptable that MPs work in an environment that is more abusive than inclusive
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
And three-quarters of women MPs (73%) said they did not use social media to comment on certain issues because of the abusive environment they encountered online as against just over half (51%) of men.
The findings are based on an anonymous online survey of a sample of 100 backbench MPs conducted by pollsters Savanta ComRes.
Jemima Olchawski, the chief executive of the Fawcett Society which campaigns for gender equality and women’s rights, said the findings underlined the need for reform at Westminster.
, racism, ableism and other forms of discrimination have no place in our society and when we hear so many MPs have experienced these toxic behaviours – both in Parliament and online – it’s extremely concerning and damages our democracy,” she said.
“It’s just not acceptable that MPs work in an environment that is more abusive than inclusive. It stops sitting MPs from speaking out on issues that matter, and deters budding women MPs from standing for election.
“MPs are rightly proud of the difference they can make to our society – but without urgent action, we won’t achieve the diverse, inclusive and representative democracy that the UK needs more than ever.”
What the papers say – May 22
Home Secretary set to face questions over her speeding ticket response
England star Leah Williamson: Most female footballers still need back-up careers
 MP, who chairs the all-party parliamentary group for women in Parliament, said the report showed the pace of change at Westminster was too slow.
“Democracies around the world are under pressure, so we all have to ensure our democratic institutions are as robust as they can be. Diverse parliaments are shown time and time again to be key to a strong democracy,” she said.
Two-thirds of women MPs have witnessed sexist conduct in Parliament
Two-thirds of women MPs have witnessed sexist conduct in Parliament
The Houses of Parliament (Anthony Devlin/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
10% off selected orders over £15 with this eBay voucher code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
