Police have lost ‘interest in prosecuting fraud’, deputy High Court judge says | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Police have lost ‘interest in prosecuting fraud’, deputy High Court judge says
The leading barrister said there had been a decline in interest in prosecuting fraud since the 90s.
Police in the UK have lost interest in catching scammers and fraudsters, according to deputy High Court judge Clare Montgomery (Andrew Milligan/PA)
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 in the UK have lost interest in catching scammers and fraudsters, according to deputy 
The leading barrister, who is also a recorder of the 
, said “99%” of crimes perpetuated by “professional fraudsters” were not being investigated, with even less being prosecuted.
In the law and politics podcast, Double Jeopardy, Ms Montgomery told hosts Ken Macdonald and Tim Owen there had been a decline in interest in prosecuting fraud since the 90s.
“Fraud just isn’t that exciting and, insofar as it has excited any interest, it’s mainly at the margins – in areas like proceeds of crime in relation to sanctions; or in relation to occasionally providing assistance to foreign governments,” she said.
“All of that does get attention, and some sort of resources at the investigative level. But in terms of actually having police officers interested in fraud, it has been subject to a decline now where I don’t believe they have any interest in prosecuting fraud anywhere.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
“The sort of localism that’s been introduced by crime commissioners directing activities by local forces has reinforced that. So now, fraud is absolutely at the bottom of anyone’s agenda.”
“You get the occasional show trial in that area. But the reality is that 99% of fraud at that level is not even investigated, still less prosecuted,” she said.
The barrister at Matrix Chambers added that she was not saying “nothing is happening”, but rather “nothing of any substance is happening that would actually deter a professional fraudster or even somebody willing to do dishonest things in the course of business – not necessarily because they’ve set out to be a criminal, but because they’re sufficiently selfish and self-interested not to care about the rights of others”.
Ms Montgomery went on to say the burden was heaviest on those who could not afford to sue for damages.
Police have lost ‘interest in prosecuting fraud’, deputy High Court judge says
Police have lost ‘interest in prosecuting fraud’, deputy High Court judge says
Police in the UK have lost interest in catching scammers and fraudsters, according to deputy High Court judge Clare Montgomery (Andrew Milligan/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Up to 30% off everything with the Samsung Youth discount
£50 cash with friend referrals at Virgin Mobile
15% off extra plans using this Vodafone promo
50% off your 1st three months - Audible promo
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
