Sunak ‘considered banning thousands of key worker from joining union’ | The Independent
Union boss hits out at ‘biggest attack on workers’ rights and freedoms’ for generations
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Sunak ‘considered banning thousands of key workers from joining union’
Union boss hits out at ‘biggest attack on workers’ rights and freedoms’ for generations
Mick Lynch says government anti-strike laws are 'an attack on human rights'
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 Rishi Sunak considered banning thousands of key workers from joining a 
Leaked government emails have allegedly laid bare a series of plans – including those that would bar 
Mr Sunak had reportedly contemplated including the proposal in the government’s anti-strike legislation announced last week, and union bosses fear the harsh measure could have also been considered for other sectors.
Mark Serwotka, general secretary of the Public and Commercial Services Union, told 
: “These emails reveal that while the government publicly is saying: ‘We want to resolve the dispute’, behind the scenes they were preparing the biggest attacks on fundamental rights and freedoms that we would have seen in this country for generations.”
The emails, which were distributed to senior civil servants last month, constituted several alternate models for the prime minister to review as possible frameworks for the anti-strike legislation.
Rishi Sunak holds emergency talks in bid to ease winter NHS crisis
New anti-strike laws won’t end well for Rishi Sunak
Hospital discharge rate for medically fit patients falls to new low
The first of the three plans, drawn up by officials and lawyers in the department for business, energy and industrial strategy (BEIS), was reportedly described as a “police service ban on striking”. 
It advocated banning BF staff from joining a trade union, with striking or “inciting disaffection” becoming a criminal offence, the leaked emails, seen by the newspaper, reportedly say.
The second model allegedly posed a “prison service-style ban on striking” to replicate rules for prison officers who are also banned from taking industrial action.
Possible concessions were suggested, such as a new independent pay review body.
The final option, which the government chose to adopt last Thursday, enforces “minimum service levels” in public sectors, with employers able to sue unions and sack staff if minimum standards are not met.
The three options reportedly were put to No 10, along with the caveat: “We [senior BEIS officials] do not yet have a firm view on the preferred model from PM”.
The first and most extreme option was turned down only because it might “be difficult to justify” in light of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the right for UK workers to join a union, the emails allegedly show.
As such, civil servants said the third model was their “preferred option”.
The new anti-strike legislation impacts six sectors including border security, health, education, fire, ambulance, rail, and nuclear commissioning, leading union bosses to suggest that ministers would have attempted to ban union membership for workers from all such areas.
“We know that the legislation covers health service, teachers and transport, and one can assume they would have considered this option not just for the border force but everywhere,” Mr Serwotka told the newspaper.
Fresh talks to be held in Royal Mail dispute
Train operating companies offer two-year pay deal to drivers’ union
Unite ambulance workers to go on strike in January in dispute over pay
“That would affect over a million people, which is an extraordinary step in any democratic society … They’re trying to potentially take what are already the most restrictive anti-union laws in Europe and take them to levels I don’t think anybody thought they would seriously contemplate.”
 reports that the emails revealed civil servants’ concern that even the minimum service was not immune to legal challenges.
A government spokesperson said: “As announced this week, we are introducing new laws to ensure a minimum level of safety in some of our most crucial sectors when industrial action takes place.”
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Sunak ‘considered banning thousands of key workers from joining union’
Sunak ‘considered banning thousands of key workers from joining union’
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
