Mordaunt: Democracy ‘hangs in balance’ if trust in politics is not restored | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Mordaunt: Democracy ‘hangs in balance’ if trust in politics is not restored
The Leader of the House of Commons called for greater collective responsibility in a speech to the Institute for Government’s conference.
Penny Mordaunt has called for faith in politics to be restored (Stefan Rousseau/PA)
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
The continuation of democracy and capitalism “hangs in the balance” if trust in politics is not restored, the 
 Leader has argued, as she warned poorer voters feel the system is “rigged against them”.
Penny Mordaunt gave a bleak assessment of public faith in the system in a speech on Tuesday, as she called for greater collective responsibility and better support to 
 amid a perception some are “wrong ‘uns”.
Ms Mordaunt, who ran against 
 for the Tory leadership, said “many people think things don’t work any more” while some are “feeling economic shocks for the first time”.
“For those with the least the whole system can seem rigged against them,” she told the 
The very continuation and success of capitalism and democracy also hangs in the balance. If people stop believing these systems work for them then, like Tinkerbell's light, it dies
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Ms Mordaunt said the Prime Minister’s bid to restore trust will only be won “when people feel understood, when they feel the benefits in their wallets”.
“Upon that trust depends more than just happy citizens and an election victory,” she said.
“The very continuation and success of capitalism and democracy also hangs in the balance. If people stop believing these systems work for them then, like Tinkerbell’s light, it dies.”
She acknowledged the need for reform of how the House of Commons functions, saying the pace of change has been “very, very slow”.
“Drama”, she said – the House is currently doing a pilot about extending proxy voting – “to people who are very seriously ill so they don’t have to get an ambulance to come and vote”.
“If this was a business we would’ve done that in a week, and many months ago,” she said.
Ms Mordaunt suggested considering “all the tools we have” including the coronavirus, remote voting technology to alleviate the need to evacuate 
She stressed the need to be “pragmatic” over the much-needed works and said any closure of the Palace of Westminster could be used to “visit other parts of the country, generate a bit of excitement”.
Discussing ethics and the behaviour of some MPs, she said “there might be a few wrong ‘uns but it’s not the majority”.
She cited colleagues who have suffered with poor mental health, “huge stresses” in their lives, or having been “put in a situation where they have been asked to juggle chainsaws and not had the support”.
London’s Vagina Museum meets fundraising goal for new premises
No reason why Stormont Assembly should not meet next week – Bertie Ahern
Police watchdog to assess whether to launch probe into Cardiff deaths crash
“That’s not saying people don’t do bad things and shouldn’t be held to account but I think when you look at these things, and ask why has someone done that, quite often there’s a lot we could do to create a better environment to pre-empt some of these things,” she said.
“I also think there should be much more collective responsibility between the House, the Cabinet Office and political parties.”
Mordaunt: Democracy ‘hangs in balance’ if trust in politics is not restored
Mordaunt: Democracy ‘hangs in balance’ if trust in politics is not restored
Penny Mordaunt has called for faith in politics to be restored (Stefan Rousseau/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
