Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Nepal’s newly appointed prime minister has taken his oath as the leader of a fragile coalition that includes his former opponent and other smaller political parties
Sign up for the daily Inside Washington email for exclusive US coverage and analysis sent to your inbox
Get our free Inside Washington email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 Nepal’s newly appointed prime minister took his oath Monday, leading a fragile coalition that includes his former opponent and other smaller political parties. 
Maoist Communist party leader Pushpa Kamal Dahal was sworn in by President Bidhya Devi Bhandari at the President House in 
 at a ceremony attended by top officials, diplomats and politicians. 
Dahal has appointed three deputies and four other ministers in the 
 that is expected to be expanded in the next few days to accommodate more members from the seven parties in the new coalition government. 
Dahal has the support of more than half the members of the newly elected 275-member House of Representatives, the lower house of 
 where he will have to prove his majority. 
It is Dahal’s third time in power since his Maoist group quit an armed revolt and joined mainstream politics in 2006.
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Besides having to hold together political parties with different believes, Dahal has the grapple with reviving the country's economy that was hit hard by the pandemic and balance relations with its giant neighbors — China and India — each vying for influence in Nepal. 
Seven parties are supporting Dahal, including his friend-turned-foe Communist Party of Nepal (United Marxist-Leninist), led by Khadga Prasad Oli.
Dahal and Oli had partnered in the last parliamentary election in 2017, but midway through the five-year term they began to squabble on who would continue as the prime minister. It was initially agreed that they would share the term but Oli apparently refused, angering Dahal.
Dahal abandoned the partnership and aligned with Sher Bahadur Deuba and his Nepali Congress party to be part of a new coalition government that was led by Deuba. 
After the Nov. 20 elections, Deuba and Dahal fell out after failing to agree on who would become the prime minister.
Dahal, also known as Prachanda, or the “fierce one,” led a violent Maoist communist insurgency from 1996 to 2006. More than 17,000 people were killed and the status of many others remains unknown.
The Maoists gave up their armed revolt, joined a U.N.-assisted peace process in 2006 and entered mainstream politics. Dahal’s party secured the most parliamentary seats in 2008 and he became prime minister, but quit a year later over differences with the president.
Copyright 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
10% off selected orders over £15 with this eBay voucher code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
