Tories will legalise VIP lane with ‘cronies’ charter’, says Labour | The Independent
£3.7bn-worth of contracts has gone to Tory contacts since start of Covid, says opposition 
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Tory procurement bill will legalise VIP lane with ‘cronies’ charter’, says Labour
£3.7bn-worth of contracts has gone to Tory contacts since start of Covid, says opposition 
Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner 
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
’s government has been accused by 
 of coming up with a “charter for cronies” that would effectively legalise its “VIP lane” for 
’s party said minister must remove loopholes from its procurement bill as it returns to the Commons on Monday.
Labour will put forward amendments to outlaw so-called VIP lanes – which saw some firms fast-tracked for contracts after MPs, ministers and senior officials passed on offers during the pandemic.
The opposition party also wants to see “clawback clauses” put into all government contracts so taxpayers’ money can be refunded if providers fail to honour their obligations.
 said the government had presided over “a procurement racket at the expense of the British people”, adding: “Under the Tories, cronies have never had it so good.”
Ms Rayner added: “This bill is a charter for cronies. Labour is demanding ministers act to ensure genuine transparency and clawback in contracts.”
Rishi Sunak ‘considers one-off payment for NHS staff to end strikes’ 
One in three Tory voters lose faith in Brexit, poll finds
MPs make £17.1m from outside jobs since 2019 – with Tory MPs earning £15.4m
Labour said its own analysis of government contract data shows that £3.7bn has gone to Tory contacts and party donors since the start of the Covid pandemic.
“Under a Labour government there will be no hiding place for cronies and no corner for corruption,” said Ms Rayner. “We’ll give the Tory sleaze merchants their marching orders, end handouts to tax havens and strike off failed providers.”
The government has said the new bill was an opportunity for the UK to shape its own procurement processes after Brexit allowed the country to leave the “complicated web” of EU rules.
Ministers said the bill – which gets its second reading today – would simplify four sets of laws into one, and open up more opportunities for small firms, voluntary and community groups to win government business.
Brexit: Rise in Britons renouncing UK citizenship since vote to leave EU
“This bill will seize the opportunity presented by Brexit to rip up outdated rules, increase opportunities for smaller companies and deliver better value for public money,” said Cabinet Office minister Jeremy Quin.
The minister said ending “the complicated web of rules and regulations inherited from the EU” would help smaller companies bid for contracts.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Tories will legalise VIP lane with ‘cronies’ charter’, says Labour
Tories will legalise VIP lane with ‘cronies’ charter’, says Labour
Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner 
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
