Watch the moment Kevin McCarthy finally elected as House Speaker | News | Independent TV
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Watch the moment Kevin McCarthy finally elected as House Speaker
 was elected as the new 
 after winning the 15th round of votes following chaotic scenes in 
Mr McCarthy won by a margin of 216-211.
Congress cannot function without a 
, marking the role as one of the most powerful positions in US politics.
Mr McCarthy was elected with the votes of fewer than half the House members only because five in his own party withheld their votes – not backing either him or another contender.
This week's failed votes marked the highest number of ballots for the speakership since 1859.
 to sign up for our newsletters.
100 climate activists highjack private jet expo in Geneva
Rolf Harris: From children’s entertainer to convicted paedophile
CCTV shows police van following electric bike before Cardiff crash
Passer-by shoves member of Just Stop Oil blocking Blackfriars bridge
Rising Irish band Kingfishr perform new single ‘Anyway’ for Music Box
Madeleine McCann: What we know so far as police search reservoir
Trevi Fountain turns black in Rome climate protest
Why did Just Stop Oil throw soup on a Van Gogh?
Watch US artist SYML’s intimate performance in Music Box Session #75
Aerial footage shows extent of devastating floods in northern Italy
Turkey elections: Will the earthquake response be the end of Erdogan?
Six big moments from Bafta TV awards 2023
The town torn apart by books | On The Ground
The fight above Ukraine’s frontline | On The Ground
Donald Trump arrested | On The Ground 
Hopes and fears on the island facing climate change | On The Ground
The Body in the Woods | An Independent TV Original Documentary
Тіло в лісі | Independent TV Оригінальний документальний фільм
Watch Independent TV’s documentary The Body in the Woods trailer
‘Energy genocide’ in Ukraine | On The Ground
Why did Just Stop Oil throw soup on a Van Gogh?
Can the coronation show that the monarchy is still relevant?
Why are Junior Doctors striking? | You Ask The Questions
What help is available for the cost of living crisis? 
Who will win The Masters? | You Ask The Questions
How bad is TikTok? | You Ask The Questions
Can Anthony Joshua fight his way back to the top of boxing?
Can Mercedes challenge Red Bull in new F1 season?
Is it time to panic over AI? | Behind The Headlines
My personal struggle amid the global fight for abortion rights 
Non-doms, ghost-doms and tax loopholes of the elite 
The fight for LGBT+ rights in Poland
The war in Ukraine | Behind The Headlines
Will Partygate be the end of Boris Johnson? | Behind The Headlines
The fall of Kabul | Behind The Headlines
What is the Good Friday Agreement? | Decomplicated
What is renewable energy? | Decomplicated
What is the World Cup? | Decomplicated
What is Black History Month? | Decomplicated
What is extreme weather? | Decomplicated
What are electric vehicles? | Decomplicated
Oscars 2023 Special | Binge or Bin
Oscars 2023: Who should win Best Actor and Actress?
Oscars 2023: Who should win Best Director?
Oscars 2023: Which film should win Best Picture?
You season 4 &amp; Shrinking | Binge or Bin
The Book Special | Binge or Bin
The Last of Us &amp; Happy Valley | Binge or Bin
The Last of Us ‘has potential to be as good as Chernobyl’
Rising Irish band Kingfishr perform new single ‘Anyway’ for Music Box
Watch US artist SYML’s intimate performance in Music Box Session #75
Watch Divorce perform three tracks for Music Box
UK rapper Avelino showcases critically-acclaimed debut in Music Box
Indie duo Dolores Forever star in Music Box episode 72
Billie Marten performs songs from new album Drop Cherries in Music Box
Che Lingo performs tracks from his new album ‘Coming Up For Air’ 
Irish artist Nell Mescal performs new single ‘In My Head’ 
These are Millennial Love’s best moments from 2022
Author Louise O’Neill on redefining boundaries in a post-Me Too world
Amber Heard was vilified for not being the ‘perfect victim’
Jodi Picoult and Jennifer Finney Boylan on a toxic political debate
Jodi Picoult: Anti-trans feminists are ‘biggest threat’ to trans lives
Trans activist Jennifer Finney Boylan on how love saved her life
Vex Ashley on feminist porn, sex work and the female gaze
Adult filmmaker says porn can be as creative as literature and film
Spanish police make hate crime arrests over Vinicius Jr effigy
Newcastle ‘shot ahead of schedule’ after securing Champions League
Moment Christ the Redeemer lights go out in support of Vinicius Jr
Mo Farah reacts to placing eighth in penultimate race of his career
Manchester City given rapturous reception ahead of Chelsea match
Man City players celebrate winning the Premier League
Barnsley boss swigs beer after reaching League 1 play-off final
Toone upbeat on England’s World Cup chances despite injury setbacks
Trevi Fountain turns black in Rome climate protest
Climate activist hangs from Adelaide bridge during XR protest
Cyclone Mocha hits Bangladesh with winds of 130mph
Jane Fonda joins climate protest standing against Biden fundraising
Activists dragged away after throwing red paint at Scottish Parliament
Hundreds of XR protesters bang drums as they descend on Home Office
Dolphins seen riding the waves alongside surfers on Sydney beach
Satellite imagery shows rare total solar eclipse over Oceania
Rolf Harris: From children’s entertainer to convicted paedophile
Bruce Willis’ wife shares dementia health tip daughter taught her
Watch: Phillip Schofield’s first appearance on This Morning in 1998
Rising Irish band Kingfishr perform new single ‘Anyway’ for Music Box
Protester covers herself in fake blood on Cannes red carpet
Watch Phillip Schofield’s final sign-off from This Morning
Watch: Harrison Ford moved to tears at Cannes Indiana Jones premiere
Andy Rourke joins Johnny Marr on stage in one of his last performances
Moment 72-year-old becomes first of seven siblings to graduate
Ireland’s oldest person celebrates 109th birthday in Dublin
Princess of Wales surprises children at Chelsea Flower Show picnic
Easy budgeting tips to save 30% of your salary
Moment bright green meteor lights up Australian skies
Trump supporter gets former president’s signature tattooed on arm
How to fly to three countries for £50 according to a solo traveller
Double-amputee Gurkha reaches Mount Everest summit in world-first
Join the marathon journeys of the 2023 Rise Up Runners
‘It’s so important to reflect on how you’re feeling’
‘Running helps me manage stress, have headspace and time out’
‘Marathon training is hard, but life is hard’
Join the marathon journeys of the 2023 Rise Up Runners
‘It’s so important to reflect on how you’re feeling’
‘Running helps me manage stress, have headspace and time out’
‘Marathon training is hard, but life is hard’
Saudi government doesn’t ‘pay lip service’ on climate action
SGI ‘seems like a nest of harmony’, journalist says
SGI ambitions are ‘extremely high’, says Saudi climate envoy
Saudi Green Initiative aims to ‘not just preserve, but create’
SGI can be a ‘catalyst’ for Saudi Arabia, head of SABB says
Kaust professor ‘inspired’ by Saudi efforts to save coral reefs
Watch in full: Day two of the Saudi Green Initiative Forum
Gérard Mestrallet on the challenges of bringing infrastructure to the region of AlUla
Sir George Iacobescu, chairman of the Canary Wharf Group on the investment into the historic region of AlUla
Oliver Ripley of sustainable hotel group Habitas talks about how AlUla challenged his preconceptions of Saudi Arabia
Thomas Kaplan of wild cat conservation charity Panthera on the mission to save the Arabian Leopard
How AlUla’s sustainability plan will stand the test of time - webinar
Discover AlUla: The Journey Through Time
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
