Andrew Bridgen vows to ‘continue to ask questions’ about vaccines | The Independent
MP says his tweet was ‘in no way antisemitic’ – but says sorry for ‘any offence caused’
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Andrew Bridgen vows to ‘continue to ask questions’ about vaccines after Tory suspension
MP says his tweet was ‘in no way antisemitic’ – but says sorry for ‘any offence caused’
Tory peer Lord Pickles recounts harrowing WWII story as he hits out at Andrew Bridgen
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 MP has apologised for any offence caused after he appeared to compare 
 with the Holocaust – but vowed to “continue to ask” questions about the safety of the jabs.
The North West Leicestershire MP was suspended by the Conservatives on Wednesday and faced criticism from 
 who called his comments as “completely unacceptable”.
In a video statement posted on YouTube on Thursday, the North West Leicestershire MP said that he was not antisemitic or racist as he defended his language about the safety of coronavirus vaccines.
On Wednesday, Mr Bridgen tweeted an article questioning their safety, adding: “As one consultant cardiologist said to me, this is the biggest crime against humanity since the Holocaust.”
His tweet was criticised campaigners and MPs from all sides of the Commons, and Tory chief whip 
Mr Bridgen, in his first comments since the suspension, said: “I’m disappointed that the chief whip, Simon Hart, with the support of the prime minister, has chosen to suspend me as a member of the Conservative parliamentary party.”
MP Andrew Bridgen ‘bombarded’ cabinet ministers with anti-vax messages 
Boris Johnson staff ‘had sex at No 10 lockdown party’
Sadiq Khan condemns Brexit damage ‘denial’ and calls for debate on rejoining single market
He added: “My tweet of the 11th of January was in no way antisemitic. Indeed, it alluded to the Holocaust being the most heinous crime against humanity in living memory.”
Apologising, he said: “Of course, if anyone is genuinely offended by my use of such imagery, then I apologise for any offence caused. I wholeheartedly refute any suggestions that I am racist and currently I’m speaking to a legal team who will commence action against those who have led the call suggesting that I am.”
The suspended MP also told viewers that he would “continue to ask” questions about the vaccine, complaining about “the current state of our democracy, the right to free speech”
He claimed: “As I’ve consistently maintained, there are very reasonable questions to be asked about the safety and effectiveness of the experimental mRNA vaccines and the risks and benefits of these treatments.”
“There are reasonable questions to ask of a government that is considering extending the use of these experimental vaccines to children as young as six months of age,” Mr Bridgen argued.
“There are reasonable questions about the side effects of mRNA vaccines,” he said, before claiming that “the current risk of harm to most of the population, and especially young people, from Covid-19 is miniscule”.
Mr Bridgen “bombarded” ministers with claims about Covid vaccines before he lost the Conservative whip, The Independent reported. One cabinet minister said that he had been “on the receiving end myself” of the PM’s claims about the vaccine.
At PMQs on Wednesday, the former health secretary Matt Hancock highlighted the “disgusting, antisemitic, anti-vax conspiracy theories”.
Professor Sir Andrew Pollard, who helped develop the Oxford/AstraZeneca jab, and Professor Adam Finn, a member of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation, both denounced his claims.
Flu patient numbers in England’s hospitals start to fall after surge
“Ideological beliefs in favour or against vaccination are not science and have no role to play in making the best policy,” said Sir Andrew.
Karen Pollock, chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust, called Mr Bridgen’s comments “highly irresponsible and wholly inappropriate”.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Andrew Bridgen vows to ‘continue to ask questions’ about vaccines
Andrew Bridgen vows to ‘continue to ask questions’ about vaccines
Andrew Bridgen has had the Conservative whip removed (Beresford Hodge/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
