Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
A former British ambassador to Iran has linked Alireza Akbari’s death to calls for the Revolutionary Guard to be classed as a terror group.
Alireza Akbari, pictured in 2008, was executed by Iran (Davoud Hosseini, IRNA via AP)
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 may have decided to execute 
 in protest at the UK potentially labelling a special branch of its armed forces a terror group, a former diplomat said.
Sir Richard Dalton, a former UK ambassador to Iran, said pressure to add the Islamic 
 Corps (IRGC) to a list of banned terrorist organisations might have influenced the timing of the British-Iranian national’s killing.
Iranian state media on Saturday announced that Mr Akbari, a former 
 defence official, had been executed.
He is believed to have been arrested in 2019 reportedly on suspicion of giving MI6 information related to past Iran nuclear talks with western nations, reports said.
In comments obtained by BBC Persian before his death, Mr Akbari said he confessed to “false and corrupt claims” after being tortured.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
His state execution comes after British MPs voted this week in favour of adding the revolutionary guard to a list of banned terrorist organisations in the UK.
The backbench motion, tabled by Conservative MP 
, is non-binding on the Government and ministers are still considering the matter.
Sir Richard worked in Iran between 2003 and 2006, making it his last posting before retiring, having also served in Libya and Jerusalem.
Speaking to Times Radio, he gave two reasons for why the Iranian regime — which has been shaken by anti-government protests in recent months — may have gone ahead with the execution at this time.
“First, giving a strong message, a strong signal to their own people, and anybody else tempted to work with people whom the Iranian government regards as their enemies, should think again, because this is the kind of fate that awaits them,” said the former diplomat.
“Secondly, there’s a decision pending in the UK as to whether to make the Islamic Revolution guards organisation, the Revolutionary Guards, in toto, a terrorist organisation under British law.
“It is possible that they want to assert their right to protest against that in advance.”
Senior Conservatives, including former cabinet minister Robert Jenrick, have been urging ministers to take a harder line on the IRGC.
Commons Foreign Affairs Committee chairwoman Alicia Kearns has called on ministers to shut down a London base which is said to be used by the special branch.
The Tory MP said she wanted to see the “Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corp office in Maida Vale closed”.
“They like to call it an outreach office, an Islamic centre,” she told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme.
“The head of it was appointed directly by the supreme leader of Iran.
London’s Vagina Museum meets fundraising goal for new premises
No reason why Stormont Assembly should not meet next week – Bertie Ahern
Police watchdog to assess whether to launch probe into Cardiff deaths crash
“This is an organisation that is solely there to spread the word of the Islamic repressive regime.”
She said proscribing the guards would represent a “big shift in policy” for Britain as it would “be the first time that we would have recognised that states can undertake terrorism”.
Alireza Akbari, pictured in 2008, was executed by Iran (Davoud Hosseini, IRNA via AP)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
