Sinn Fein withdrawal overshadows Cleverly talks with parties on protocol | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Sinn Fein withdrawal overshadows Cleverly talks with parties on protocol
Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald accused the British Government of ‘Tory petulance’ after she said she was excluded from political talks.
The meeting was held to discuss the impact of the Northern Ireland Protocol (Peter Morrison/PA)
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 dramatically withdrew from roundtable talks with Foreign Secretary 
 Protocol, after party leader 
The Belfast talks, which included Northern Ireland Secretary Chris Heaton-Harris and also focused on the Stormont powersharing crisis, were overshadowed by the row.
Ms McDonald accused the British Government of “Tory petulance” and said the situation was “bizarre and unprecedented”.
But unionist representatives instead suggested it was a diplomatic issue and that Mr Cleverly could not meet Ms McDonald, who is the leader of the opposition in the Republic, ahead of meeting his counterpart in Ireland.
Mr Cleverly insisted Sinn Fein had been very welcome to attend, and the party’s vice president Michelle O’Neill had been invited to the meeting.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
He stressed the meeting was to hear from political representatives in Northern Ireland, and he would meet Irish politicians when he goes to Ireland “in the near future”.
During a visit to Saintfield Garden Centre on Wednesday afternoon, he told media: “Sinn Fein were very welcome.
“My meeting here this morning was to meet with the elected representatives of the people of Northern Ireland. I will of course be going to Ireland in the near future and I’ll be meeting Irish politicians, but I very much wanted to hear from representatives of Northern Ireland.
“Michelle O’Neill was invited as was her deputy, they chose not to come but it was a very useful meeting and I did get to hear voices that had concerns, serious concerns, about the protocol, the impact it is having on people and businesses in Northern Ireland.”
The two Government ministers had been expected to meet representatives of all the main parties in Northern Ireland to discuss the impact of the post-Brexit protocol.
Instead the meeting went ahead with the unionist DUP and UUP and the cross-community Alliance party present.
The nationalist SDLP joined Sinn Fein in refusing to attend.
Ms McDonald spoke to the media in Belfast while the talks were taking place nearby in the city.
She said: “We are in a very important time when progress needs to be made on the issue of the protocol, on getting the executive back up and running, getting the Assembly into action and ensuring people have government.
“We had hoped to make progress on those issues at today’s leaders’ meeting.
“I travelled for that meeting because I believe it is an important meeting and bizarrely, and in an unprecedented way, the British Government choose to seek to exclude the leader of Sinn Fein from a leaders’ meeting.
“The whole thing is absolutely bizarre and unacceptable.
“We need politics which is civil, which is based on respect, which recognises the democratic mandate and the responsibility of every party including Sinn Fein.”
She added: “We had a chance this morning to mark progress, to exchange views, to be constructive, to work together, to listen to each other.
“But rather than having that kind of meeting, a kind of British Tory petulance has emerged. I think that is a terrible shame.”
Sinn Fein Stormont leader Michelle O’Neill in a tweet accused the British Government of “bad faith”.
 spokesman said: “This meeting is for Northern Ireland politicians to talk through issues around the Northern Ireland Protocol with SOSNI and the UK Foreign Secretary.
“The leader of Sinn Fein in the Assembly (Michelle O’Neill) was invited and remains invited.
“Her attendance is a matter for Sinn Fein but she was not excluded.”
Speaking after the meeting, DUP leader Sir Jeffrey Donaldson said he did not want to get drawn into the row, but that no party had been excluded.
He said: “That is a matter between the Northern Ireland Office and Sinn Fein.
“My understanding is the NIO didn’t exclude any party.
“There was an issue around the protocol of Mary Lou McDonald meeting the Foreign Secretary ahead of the Foreign Secretary meeting his counterpart in Dublin.
“That is not a matter for me. I am not going to get drawn into this.
“It is better when all parties are at the table. I want to see all parties in Northern Ireland putting their views across, particularly to the Foreign Secretary.
“I hope next time the parties will be back at the table.”
Sir Jeffrey said he believed Mr Cleverly recognised that any deal on the protocol had to be acceptable to unionists.
He said: “This was an invaluable opportunity for us to put forward our concerns about the ongoing negotiations.
“They talked about getting a deal that works for everyone and works for Northern Ireland, and I think that is fundamentally important, they recognise a deal with the EU which doesn’t work for unionists just isn’t going to fly.
“It was good we had the opportunity to input our views on how the negotiations should go forward and on the areas that need to be addressed in the negotiations.”
Ulster Unionist leader Doug Beattie said he pushed for more input from local politicians in the negotiations between the EU and the UK Government over the protocol.
I am listening to the concerns of people and businesses in Northern Ireland and am keenly aware that the current situation isn’t working
He said: “We need to be in a position that if they are going to agree something, we have the ability to say that is not going to work.
“That is a red flag and I made that point quite strongly to the Foreign Secretary.”
Devolution in Northern Ireland has been in flux since last February when the DUP, the region’s largest unionist party, withdrew its first minister from the ministerial executive in protest at the protocol.
The party has made clear it will not allow a return to powersharing until radical changes to the protocol are delivered.
It claims the treaty has undermined Northern Ireland’s place within the United Kingdom by creating economic barriers on trade entering the region from Great Britain.
However, earlier this week progress between the EU and the UK on post-Brexit data-sharing was hailed as a positive step in ongoing talks to find a solution to the row.
Mr Cleverly and Mr Heaton-Harris are also due to meet business groups as part of their efforts to understand the impact the protocol has had on trade.
London’s Vagina Museum meets fundraising goal for new premises
No reason why Stormont Assembly should not meet next week – Bertie Ahern
Police watchdog to assess whether to launch probe into Cardiff deaths crash
Speaking earlier, Mr Cleverly said: “I am listening to the concerns of people and businesses in Northern Ireland and am keenly aware that the current situation isn’t working.
“We need to address those issues with the protocol that risk and undermine the place of NI in the UK.”
Sinn Fein withdrawal overshadows Cleverly talks with parties on protocol
Sinn Fein withdrawal overshadows Cleverly talks with parties on protocol
The meeting was held to discuss the impact of the Northern Ireland Protocol (Peter Morrison/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
