Palestinian rights lawyer says deportation won&#x27;t stop him | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Palestinian rights lawyer says deportation won&#x27;t stop him
Palestinian lawyer and activist Salah Hammouri is vowing to keep fighting for the rights of the Palestinian people despite his deportation to France following Israel’s claim that he has ties to a banned militant group
Palestinian rights lawyer says deportation won&#x27;t stop him
Palestinian rights lawyer says deportation won&#x27;t stop him
Palestinian rights lawyer says deportation won&#x27;t stop him
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
Palestinian rights lawyer says deportation won&#x27;t stop him
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 lawyer and activist Salah Hammouri vowed to keep up his fight for the rights of the Palestinian people despite his deportation to 
 following Israel’s claim that he has ties to a banned militant group. 
Hammouri, who holds French citizenship, landed in 
 on Dec. 18 following months of legal wrangling, despite France’s public opposition to the expulsion.
His deportation underscored the fragile status of Palestinians in Israeli-annexed east 
, where most hold revocable residency rights but are not Israeli citizens. 
In an interview with the Associated Press this week, Hammouri said his deportation “will leave me only the courage to continue my struggle against the Israeli occupation and to defend the rights of the Palestinian people.”
"I can’t imagine myself living out of Jerusalem and out of Palestine because this is the place where I grew up. This is the place where I want to live and this is the place where I want to go back,” he said.
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Hammouri said Israeli authorities followed through with his deportation to send a “clear message" that Palestinians in Jerusalem should leave the city in order to “have an Israeli majority in Jerusalem with a minority of Palestinian people.”
Israel says Hammouri is an activist with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a group that it, the United States and the European Union have labelled a terrorist organization. He has worked as a lawyer for Adameer, a rights group that assists Palestinian prisoners that Israel has banned for alleged ties to the PFLP. 
He spent seven years in prison after being convicted in an alleged plot to kill a prominent rabbi but was released in a 2011 prisoner swap with the Hamas militant group. He was not charged or convicted in the most recent legal proceedings against him.
But Israel claimed he continued to be active with the banned group, stripped him of residency, and placed him last March in administrative detention — a status that allows Israel to hold suspected militants for months at a time without charging them or putting them on trial.
“Israeli authorities have no evidence that I'm a member of the Palestinian organization (PFLP)," he told the 
. “If they have had evidence, they would have been able to show it to the French authorities, which they did not.”
“I am an advocate for the rights of the Palestinian people… and human rights and I am a lawyer. I defended Palestinian political prisoners and it’s my right,” he said. 
Hammouri said France didn't “work enough to help me and my cause" and opted not to use “means of pressure" at its disposal. He urged French authorities "to use the best means of pressure so that I can go back home.” 
France’s Foreign Ministry condemned Israel’s deportation of Hammouri after his arrival in Paris, saying it has “taken full action, including at the highest level of the state" to ensure Hammouri’s rights are respected, receives due process and lead “a normal life in Jerusalem, where he was born, resides and wishes to live.”
Hammouri said he's spending time his wife and children, who are French, in the Paris region, resting and recovering from a 19-day hunger strike he went on in October to protest Israel's policy of administrative detention.
He did not provide details on how he will continue his political activities.
Israel captured east Jerusalem, home to the city’s most important religious sites, in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed the area in a move that is not internationally recognized. It considers the entire city to be its capital, while the Palestinians claim east Jerusalem as the capital of a future state.
Montana governor signs law to define &#x27;sex&#x27; as only male or female
E. Jean Carroll adds Trump&#x27;s post-verdict remarks to defamation case, seeks at least $10M
4-year-old boy&#x27;s body found in surging California river, day after sister found dead
While Jews in the city are entitled to automatic citizenship, Palestinians are granted residency status. This allows them freedom of movement, the ability to work and access to Israeli social services, but they are not allowed to vote in national elections. Residency rights can be stripped if a Palestinian is found to live outside the city for an extended period or in certain security cases.
Palestinians can apply for citizenship but few do, in part because they do not want to be seen as accepting what they see as an occupation. Those who do apply, however, face a lengthy and bureaucratic process with no guarantees of approval.
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
Palestinian rights lawyer says deportation won&#x27;t stop him
Palestinian rights lawyer says deportation won&#x27;t stop him
Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
5% off all bookings with this Travelodge discount code
Save £200 on 2023 holidays with this TUI discount code
Save 5% on all hotel bookings with this Barcelo discount code
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
