Scotland’s Gender Recognition Reform Bill – What it means and what comes next | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Scotland’s Gender Recognition Reform Bill – What it means and what comes next
Some of the key points in the debate around gender recognition reform.
The Bill has seen divisive debate (David Cheskin/PA)
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 has passed a law which reforms the gender recognition process in 
 passed after lengthy debates at Holyrood, often amid divisive political rhetoric.
It has been discussed for years, with strong opinions for and against changing the 2004 Gender Recognition Act.
Here are some of the key points, and what comes next.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
The main element of the Bill is to make it easier for trans people to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) by removing the requirement for a diagnosis of gender dysphoria.
It will also lower the minimum age for applicants from 18 to 16 and drop the time required for an applicant to live in their acquired gender from two years to three months – six for people aged 16 and 17 – though with a subsequent, three-month reflection period.
The Bill has been amended as it moved through Holyrood.
At stage two, it was announced 16- and 17-year-olds would need to live in their acquired gender for six months rather than three before applying for a GRC.
It was also announced there will be new statutory aggravation to the offence of making a fraudulent application for a GRC.
 backed a change tabled by SNP MSP Gillian Martin which means anyone subject to a sexual harm prevention order or sexual offences prevention order will not be allowed to seek a GRC.
Campaigners in favour of the Bill say a move to make trans peoples’ lives easier is long overdue.
A group of LGBT+ groups recently issued a joint letter saying the Bill is a “historic opportunity to continue Scotland’s journey towards full social and legal equality”.
They disagree that an expansion of trans peoples’ rights comes at the expense of women’s rights, saying the Bill will have little impact outside the trans community.
Nicola Sturgeon, whose government launched the Bill, said the current system of medical diagnoses was “intrusive, traumatic and dehumanising”.
Those in opposition to the Bill say it will impact the safety of women and single-sex spaces.
They say there are insufficient safeguards to protect women and girls from predatory men, raising concerns about environments like women’s prisons.
Protests inside and outside the  Scottish Parliament have called on MSPs to vote down the Bill.
Some oppose the Bill on religious grounds, saying it will blur the distinction between men and women.
Unusually in Scottish politics, opposition to the Bill has cut across party lines.
In October, the SNP’s Ash Regan dramatically quit the government in protest at the Bill, as nine of the party’s MSPs either abstained or voted against stage one of the Bill.
Others in the SNP, like MP Joanna Cherry, have had longstanding opposition to the process of gender recognition reform.
Most Conservative MSPs are opposed to the Bill, with exceptions being Jamie Greene and Dr Sandesh Gulhane.
Scottish Labour are largely in favour, but some MSPs appear to have been in the opposition camp during debates on the amendments.
Scottish Green and Lib Dem MSPs are in favour of the new law.
Once the Bill has passed at Holyrood, attention will turn to how the UK Government reacts.
London’s Vagina Museum meets fundraising goal for new premises
No reason why Stormont Assembly should not meet next week – Bertie Ahern
Police watchdog to assess whether to launch probe into Cardiff deaths crash
This is because UK equalities minister 
 has said she has concerns about legal divergence between Scotland the rest of the UK.
Any dispute between the two governments could end up in court. In the absence of any challenge, the Bill would receive royal assent, and become law.
Scotland’s Gender Recognition Reform Bill – What it means and what comes next
Scotland’s Gender Recognition Reform Bill – What it means and what comes next
The Bill has seen divisive debate (David Cheskin/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
