Donald Trump silent as Jair Bolsonaro supporters launch Jan 6-style attack on Brasilia | The Independent
Trump ally’s supporters have been protesting election since October 
 US politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":true,"titleSEO":"US Politics | Latest news, comment and analysis","seoDescription":"Latest updates on Trump, 2020 election, Senate, House and more"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Donald Trump silent as supporters of ally Bolsonaro launch Jan 6-style attack on Brazilian capital
Trump ally’s supporters have been protesting election since October 
Bolsonaro supporters storm presidential palace andNational Congress in Brazil
Sign up for the daily Inside Washington email for exclusive US coverage and analysis sent to your inbox
Get our free Inside Washington email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
A conservative candidate loses re-election and attacks the integrity of the election system while refusing to fully concede defeat as many of the candidate’s supporters protest and storm the capital.
Owing to recent events, this timeline can now hold true for either 
 or his far-right ally in South America, former 
 supporters stormed the national 
 building and other official sites in capital Brasília, part of the movement’s continued, oftentimes violent, protests against Mr Bolsonaro’s election loss to leftist Luiz Inacio 
So far, despite the many parallels to the Jan 6 insurrection, Mr Trump has refrained from offering any remarks on the siege in Brazil.
The one-time president was clearly active on social media, continuing a round-the-clock commentary 
, including posting news articles and calling congressman Adam Schiff a “sleazebag and a traitor” throughout the hours when hundreds of Bolsonaro diehards smashed through office buildings.
Bolsonaro supporters invade presidential palace in Brazil 
Photo of Bolsonaro eating KFC in Florida after Brazil election loss inspires memes – and even an oil painting
Dramatic videos show mounted police being attacked and rioters inside Brazil’s presidential palace
has contacted Mr Trump for comment.
Mr Trump had endorsed the renewed election bid of far-right Bolsonaro last year.
“President Jair Bolsonaro and I have become great friends over the past few years. He fights hard for, and loves, the people of Brazil—Just like I do for the people of the United States,” Mr Trump said in a statement in October.
“Brazil is lucky to have a man such as Jair Bolsonaro working for them,” he added.
Mr Bolsonaro, who has been dubbed the “
,” shares many of Mr Trump’s conservative views criticising immigration, political correctness and what both men call the “fake news”.
“May I say that Brazil and the United States stand side by side in their efforts to ensure liberties and respect to traditional family lifestyles with respect to God our creator... and against fake news,” Mr Bolsonaro said during a visit to the US in 2019.
The former Brazilian president also used similar tactics after his election defeat, consistently challenging election results, refusing to concede and skipping his successor’s inauguration.
Ivanka and Jared split over attending Trump 2024 launch – follow live
Why was Donald Trump impeached twice during his first term?
Four big lies Trump told during his 2024 presidential announcement
The US right, including those within the Trump circle, has heavily courted Brazil, which, like the US, has a large evangelical population and sharp divides over issues like race and the economy.
Figures like Donald Trump Jr have 
participated in the Brazilian spinoff of the influential CPAC conference
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Donald Trump silent as ally Bolsonaro voters storm capital
Donald Trump silent as ally Bolsonaro voters storm capital
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
15% off selected orders over £15 with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
