Keir Starmer ridiculed for ‘barmy’ suggestion on internal bleeding | The Independent
Labour leader’s comments branded ‘irresponsible’ and ‘barmy’ 
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Keir Starmer ridiculed for ‘barmy’ suggestion on internal bleeding
Labour leader’s comments branded ‘irresponsible’ and ‘barmy’ 
Starmer suggests patients with internal bleeding should receive help without ‘going to see a GP’
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 has been mocked on social media for suggesting that people with internal bleeding could self-refer for care rather than see a GP.
In an appearance on the BBC’s Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg, the 
 leader was discussing the party’s NHS reform plans when he made the suggestion.
He said: “Would it not be possible to consider self-referral so that individuals don’t have to go to a doctor, use up a doctor’s time in order to get referred to specialist help.
“If you’ve got back pain and you want to see a physio it should be possible, I think, to self-refer. If you’ve got internal bleeding and you just want a test, there ought to be a way that doesn’t involve going to see a GP.”
The idea was widely mocked on social media and branded as “irresponsible” and “barmy”, while others questioned how they could diagnose internal bleeding without medical qualifications.
Labour would ‘explore full potential’ of UK outside EU’s single market
Brian Cox ‘proud’ of Scotland’s gender identification law and defends JK Rowling
Keir Starmer vows to slash ‘bureaucratic nonsense’ in NHS
Starmer says 16 too young as he speaks of ‘concern’ over new Scotland gender law
Richard Murphy, a professor of Accounting Practice at Sheffield University, said: “WTF is Starmer talking about? If you really have internal bleeding you probably need to be in A&E now. So what does he think he’s talking about? This seems like total irresponsibility to me.
Daniel Kelly, a professor at the School of Healthcare Sciences at Cardiff University, said: “Self-referral is what’s already happening. People are turning up at A&E. Instead focus on anticipatory models of primary care. 
“Whichever plan is chosen there is going to need to be major focus on retention of the NHS workforce.”
Agnes Ayton, a consultant psychiatrist, tweeted: “I burst out laughing. For self-referrals to work, we would need a massive expansion of capacity and public information campaigns.”
Watch: Sunak and Starmer clash in first PMQs since Tories suffer in local elections
Keir Starmer fails to rule out Lib Dem deal if Labour falls short of a majority 
Boris Johnson called Sue Gray ‘psycho’, says ex-No 10 spin doctor
And another Twitter user who said they were an NHS nurse said: “That was the sound of my jaw hitting the floor - is that really the best and most appropriate example he could have come up with?”
Dr Kate Womersley, a psychiatry junior doctor, added that the Labour leader’s “odd comments” about back pain and internal bleeding “is proving exactly why having an expert’s opinion about medical symptoms is usually better than your own vague guess about what’s going on”.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Keir Starmer ridiculed for ‘barmy’ suggestion on internal bleeding
Keir Starmer ridiculed for ‘barmy’ suggestion on internal bleeding
Sir Keir Starmer spoke about his NHS reform proposals during a BBC interview (Jeff Overs/BBC/PA)
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
20% or more off in the AO fridge freezers sale + Next day delivery
At least 10% less than RRP across all departments at TK Maxx
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
