Warren Buffett jumps into local politics to fight streetcar | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Warren Buffett jumps into local politics to fight streetcar
Billionaire investor Warren Buffett broke with his practice of staying out of local politics to urge his hometown of Omaha to abandon its planned streetcar project because he says it's too expensive and not as flexible as buses
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 broke with his practice of staying out of local politics to urge his hometown of 
 to abandon its planned streetcar project because he says it's too expensive and not as flexible as buses. 
Buffett wrote a letter to the editor of the Omaha World-Herald and met with the mayor this week to lobby against the $306 million project and urge the city to let residents vote on it.
But city officials are moving forward with the streetcar because they believe it will spur development, including Mutual of Omaha’s planned $600 million headquarters tower downtown. 
Buffett said in his letter that he decided to make an exception to his policy of staying out of local issues even though “it can be off-putting to many to have a wealthy 92-year-old tell them what is good for their future.” He said he wanted to weigh in on the streetcar because it's "going to be hugely expensive if implemented.”
“Residents can be far better served by extended or more intensive service by the bus system,” Buffett wrote. “As population, commerce and desired destinations shift, a bus system can be re-engineered. Streetcars keep mindlessly rolling on, fueled by large public subsidies. 
 are literally cast in cement.”
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Buffett didn't respond Thursday to questions about his letter.
The proposed streetcar would start less than 20 blocks away from the midtown home Buffett has lived in for decades and run right past the headquarters of his 
 conglomerate on the way downtown.
Mutual of Omaha officials said when they announced their new office tower that is expected to become their namesake city's tallest building that the new streetcar was a key part of its plan because it would provide convenient access to the new headquarters. The company declined to respond directly to Buffett's criticisms Thursday.
The city is banking on new tax revenue from other development expected along the streetcar line to pay for the project. And the City Council has already approved the bonds that will pay for it.
Buffett said that he would vote no on the project if he was given the chance, but the city isn't required to hold an election. The project has been moving forward with little significant public opposition since it was announced in January alongside Mutual's new headquarters. 
Omaha Mayor Jean Stothert told the Omaha World-Herald that she met with Buffett Wednesday to discuss the streetcar and development in the city.
“I have great admiration for Mr. Buffett,” Stothert said, “but I respectfully disagree with his position on the streetcar.”
Florida school bans poem recited by Amanda Gorman at Biden inauguration
Who is David Sacks: the controversial entrepreneur hosting DeSantis 2024 event
CCTV ‘shows police van driving behind bike minutes before fatal crash’
Buffett's tiny headquarters staff of about two dozen people isn't likely to add to the number of people using the streetcar even if it does go right past their front door because it will only extend about seven blocks west of the office. 
But the conglomerate Buffett leads as Chairman and CEO does own more than 90 companies worldwide, including the BNSF railroad, Geico insurance, several major utilities and an eclectic assortment of manufacturing and retail businesses such as Dairy Queen and Precision Castparts. Berkshire also holds several hundred millions of dollars of stocks, including major investments in Apple, Coca-Cola and Bank of America.
Warren Buffett jumps into local politics to fight streetcar
Warren Buffett jumps into local politics to fight streetcar
Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Up to 30% off everything with the Samsung Youth discount
£50 cash with friend referrals at Virgin Mobile
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
