Jacinda Ardern and Sanna Marin, Finnish prime minister, shoot down awkward question about age | The Independent
‘We are meeting because we are prime ministers’
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Jacinda Ardern and Sanna Marin shoot down awkward question about their age and gender
‘We are meeting because we are prime ministers’
Jacinda Ardern and Sanna Marin shoot down awkward question about age and gender
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 prime minister Jacinda Ardern and Finland’s leader 
 shot down an unexpected question from a reporter who asked whether the two were meeting because they are both of the same age and 
The New Zealand and Finnish prime ministers were holding a joint press conference to mark their first face-to-face meeting on Wednesday morning at Auckland’s Government House when a reporter questioned the motive of the meeting.
The two discussed global issues and threats to democracy, including the war in 
 and the situation in Afghanistan.
“A lot of people will be wondering are you two just meeting because you are similar in age and have a lot of common stuff there, when you got into politics and stuff,” the reporter asked.
Ms Ardern shot back: “I wonder whether or not anyone ever asked Barack Obama and (former New Zealand PM) John Key if they met because they were of similar age.”
The Body in the Woods | An Independent TV Original Documentary
The harrowing discovery at centre of The Independent’s new documentary
Her counterpart, Ms Marin, said: “We’re meeting because we are prime ministers.”
Ms Marin was labelled as the “party prime minister” after viral 
videos of her dancing at a house party
 in August sparked a nationwide debate on her conduct in office and personal choices.
She tearfully defended her right to a private life following the videos.
Ms Marin, one of the world’s youngest heads of government, apologised for going clubbing during the pandemic and coming in close contact with a Covid case. 
During the conference, Ms Adren raised questions over the gender gap in politics.
Finnish PM arrived in New Zealand on ‘special request’ for first ever visit 
“We, of course, have a higher proportion of men in politics – it’s reality – because two women meet, it is not simply because of their gender,” Ms Ardern said.
She added they are very much focused on the responsibility they have as female leaders as several women in their countries faced “dire circumstances, where we are seeing the most basic of human rights being repressed and violated”. 
She referred to Iran specifically as a “good example” of such circumstances where anti-government protests against the country’s strict dressing law have caused widescale unrest.
Ms Marine said they stood together “to make sure every woman and girl all across the world will have the same rights and the same opportunities as men”.
New Zealand budget plan offers modest financial relief ahead of election
Australian MPs to mark Modi visit by screening critical BBC documentary in Parliament
Police officer who tasered 95-year-old in care home suspended
’s invasion of Ukraine, Ms Adern raised concerns that the war is “literally on Finland’s doorstep”.
Ms Ardern added: “And I appreciated the prime minister’s insightful perspectives on the war, and of course, the enduring impact it may have on Europe and global security.”
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
New Zealand, Finnish PM shoot down question about their age and gender
New Zealand, Finnish PM shoot down question about their age and gender
Finnish PM arrived in New Zealand on ‘special request’ for first ever visit 
New Zealand, Finnish PM shoot down question about their age and gender
Finlands Prime Minister Sanna Marin shakes hands with New Zealand’s Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern during a bilateral meeting in Auckland
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
