Labour takes huge lead over the Tories in new poll after chaotic 2022 | The Independent
Voters downbeat about government’s ability to manage economy and ease cost of living crisis 
 Home News","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"titleSEO":"UK News - latest breaking news and headlines by The Independent"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Labour takes huge lead over the Tories in new poll after chaotic 2022
Voters downbeat about government’s ability to manage economy and ease cost of living crisis 
Keir Starmer confirms plan to abolish 'indefensible' House of Lords if he were elected as PM
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 is on course to win a majority at the next general election, according to a survey that gives Keir Starmer’s party a huge 26-point poll lead.
A People Polling survey for GB News has the opposition on 45 per cent, with the Conservatives on just 19 per cent and the Lib Dems on 8 per cent.
It is a fresh blow to the prime minister, who is attempting to turn around his party’s electoral fortunes following a summer of chaos in the Conservative Party which saw his two immediate predecessors ousted from office.
Mr Sunak steadied the ship after taking over from Liz Truss, who resigned in the aftermath of her disastrous mini-Budget, but his party’s recovery now “appears to be going backwards”, one expert said of the poll.
Multiple polls over the past few months, including a Savanta ComRes survey for 
, give Labour a large advantage over governing party, but the size of the lead in the People Polling survey may set off alarm bells in No 10.
Keir Starmer calls for a ‘completely new way of doing politics’ in new year message
UK’s problems will not ‘go away’ in 2023, says Sunak in New Year message
‘There is no vision’: Can Rishi Sunak turn the Tory ship around before the next election?
Concerning Mr Sunak and his aides will be the rise of the Reform Party, founded with support from Brexiteer Nigel Farage and led by Richard Tice, the businessman and former Member of the European Parliament.
Reform, a populist outfit that runs on a platform of low taxes, appears to be eating into the Conservative Party’s share of the vote on the right. The People Polling survey puts the party level pegging with the Lib Dems on 8 per cent.
Matt Goodwin, professor of politics at the University of Kent, said Mr Starmer goes in 2023 in “prime position, with more than enough support for a majority”.
Sunak replaced Truss in October, becoming third prime minister this year 
He added that, whatever Mr Sunak does next, “he’d better do it quick” as the clock is running down, with the next general election coming in January 2025 at the latest but more likely to be called in 2024.
After entering No 10 in October, Mr Sunak and his chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, made fixing the economy their number one priority after the mini-Budget caused chaos in the financial markets.
Mr Hunt raised taxes and scrapped almost every giveaway set out by his predecessor, Kwasi Kwarteng, as he sought to repair the public finances.
The PM has not yet set out a vision for what he wants to do in office beyond steadying the economy, alleviating the cost of living crisis and tackling the small boats crisis.
Mr Sunak’s critics, concerned by Labour’s lead, have described his approach to governing so far as cautious and are calling for him to make a better offer to the British public, who face the highest tax burden in decades amid higher prices.
Some reports suggest Mr Sunak will begin setting out his programme for government in the new year, although it remains unclear what that could look like.
Analysts believe the next general election will be decided on the cost of living crisis and the government’s handling of the economy, which is on the brink of recession.
Poll shows Labour with huge 26-point lead 
Just four per cent of people spoken to by Polling People were “completely” or “fairly” confident the government could cut the cost of living in 2023.
Seven out of 10, meanwhile, were not confident at all, including 53 per cent of Conservative voters, rising to 90 per cent among Labour supporters.
Only two per cent of Tory voters were completely confident the government can reduce the cost of living next year, according to the poll.
When asked whether the coming 12 months will be better or worse than 2022 for their family’s financial situation, 60 per cent of those questioned believed 2023 would be worse.
Mr Goodwin said the polling suggested that the Conservatives have “lost ownership of the economy”.
Voters are “clearly pessimistic about their future prospects too, with most of them expecting their financial situation to worsen over the year ahead,” he added
Budget 2022: Hunt says UK in recession as he announces huge tax rises
Jeremy Hunt increases energy windfall tax in budget
Jeremy Hunt freezes tax allowances and hits 45p rate payers
In his new year message, Mr Sunak warned the problems facing the country will not “go away” in 2023 but vowed to showcase the “very best of Britain” in the coming months by continuing to support Ukraine.
Mr Starmer, in his own new year message, called for a “completely new way of doing politics”.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Labour takes huge lead over the Tories in new poll after chaotic 2022
Labour takes huge lead over the Tories in new poll after chaotic 2022
Sunak replaced Truss in October, becoming third prime minister this year 
Labour takes huge lead over the Tories in new poll after chaotic 2022
Poll shows Labour with huge 26-point lead 
Labour takes huge lead over the Tories in new poll after chaotic 2022
Labour Leader Keir Starmer speaks to former ‘Love Island’ star Amy Hart during a youth fringe meeting at Labour annual conference in Brighton
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
20% or more off in the AO fridge freezers sale + Next day delivery
At least 10% less than RRP across all departments at TK Maxx
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
