Jacinda Ardern says it’s time to get married to partner Clarke Gayford | The Independent
‘And to Clarke, let’s finally get married,’ says Ardern
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Jacinda Ardern says it’s time to get married to partner Clarke Gayford
‘And to Clarke, let’s finally get married,’ says Ardern
Jacinda Ardern resigns as prime minister of New Zealand
For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails
Sign up to our free breaking news emails
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 announced her plans to get married to her partner Clarke Gayford as she said she is resigning from the top role in a farewell speech on Thursday.
As she confirmed her move to quit politics ahead of the October polls, Ms Ardern mentioned her family members, her four-year-old daughter Neve who she was conceived during her prime ministership, and her partner.
"So, to Neve, mum’s looking forward to being there when you start school this year. And to Clarke, let’s finally get married," Ms Ardern said.
The popular New Zealand leader, who made waves in global politics with her policies, said that she "no longer had enough in the tank” to do the job justice. She added that it was time to make way for someone else and step down.
The announcement, made alongside her family and reporters on Thursday, surprised many.
New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern announces shock resignation in tearful address
New Zealand&#x27;s Ardern, an icon to many, to step down
‘I’ve got nothing left in the tank’: Jacinda Ardern’s resignation speech in full
Ms Ardern said that she will not be getting into more roles or a different job elsewhere but enjoy some time with her family.
“Arguably they are the ones that have sacrificed the most out of all of us," the mother-of-one said.
The Labour leader became the world’s youngest female head of government when she was elected prime minister in 2017, aged 37, and said she had taken time last summer to ponder her future.
On being asked if her only child was made aware of the big resignation announcement beforehand, Ms Ardern said: "Not yet. Four-year-olds are chatty, couldn’t run the risk,” leaving the reporters laughing.
“I had hoped that I would find what I needed to carry on over that period but, unfortunately, I haven’t, and I would be doing a disservice to New Zealand to continue,” she said.
She added: “I hope I leave New Zealanders with a belief that you can be kind but strong, empathetic but decisive, optimistic but focused ... that you can be your own kind of leader, one who knows when it’s time to go.”
World leaders pay tribute to ‘great friend’ Jacinda Ardern as she resigns
Tucker Carlson dubs Jacinda Ardern ‘lady with the big teeth’ and ‘Chinese puppet’ while garbling her name
The popular prime minister had faced a tough election campaign this year, according to the Associated Press. While her liberal-leaning Labour Party won re-election two years ago in a landslide of historic proportions, recent polls have put her party behind its conservative rivals.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Jacinda Ardern says it’s time to get married to partner Clarke Gayford
Jacinda Ardern says it’s time to get married to partner Clarke Gayford
New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern and partner Clarke Gayford leave after she announces her resignation at the War Memorial Centre in Napier, New Zealand
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Save 10% on Apple smart accessories using this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
