Boris Johnson declares £1m donation from former Brexit Party bankroller | The Independent
Former prime minister also declared huge sums from post-No 10 public speaking gigs 
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Boris Johnson declares £1m donation from former Brexit Party bankroller
Former prime minister also declared huge sums from post-No 10 public speaking gigs 
Partygate: Boris Johnson's repeated denials and excuses
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 has declared a donation of £1m from a former Brexit Party bankroller to help him carry out his work as a former prime minister.
The huge sum given to the former prime minister’s personal company by the Tory donor and crypto investor signals that he does not intend to leave politics in the near future.
The donor, Christopher Harborne, gave £5m to the Brexit Party in the months leading up to the 2019 general election, more than two-thirds of what the party received in that period, and has also donated to the Conservatives. 
The Brexit Party, now known as Reform UK, was established in 2018 and headed by Nigel Farage to pressure the Tories into a hard break from the European Union.
The private limited company established by Mr Johnson does not carry out commercial business and solely functions as a private office to support him as a former prime minister.
According to the parliamentary declarations, Mr Johnson has been continuing to live at a property linked to wealthy Tory donor Lord Bamford.
Boris Johnson staff ‘had sex at No 10 lockdown party’
Sunak takes the high road with Sturgeon meeting
King Charles, Sunak and Macron – could this be the start of a new entente cordiale?
He declared the “use of accommodation for me and my family from December 2022 to January 2023 at an estimated value of £10,000”, provided by Lord Anthony and Lady Carole Bamford. Lord Banford is a Tory donor and chair ond JCB.
Since leaving office last September, Mr Johnson has declared more than £1m in speaking fees. In December, he recorded around £300,000 for two separate speeches.
Mr Johnson promoted blockchain, the technology behind cryptocurrency, in a speech in Singapore on 2 December for which he received £253,880.
Former prime minister Boris Johnson arrives to give a speech at the Carlton Club in St James’s, London on Tuesday
He described blockchain enthusiasts as “pioneers“ but also said he supported stronger regulation on cryptocurrencies.
Mr Johnson announced he would leave office last summer after months of scandal culminated in more than 50 members of government resigning their posts to force his hand.
This week has seen revived interest in the Partygate scandal, which dogged Mr Johnson from the end of 2021 onwards, after the former prime minister was alleged to have 
 about a 13 November 2020 drinks event in Downing Street being “the most unsocially distanced party” in the UK.
The latest register of MP’s financial interests showed that Mr Johnson had received the second-highest sum in donations since the 2019 election at £2.2m.
Sadiq Khan condemns Brexit damage ‘denial’ and calls for debate on rejoining single market
Partygate: Boris Johnson joked No 10 party was ‘most unsocially distanced in UK’
He sits behind Theresa May, his predecessor as prime minister, who had received £2.8m. Sir Keir Starmer received the most of any opposition politician, with £799,000.
The largest single donation went to Sir Geoffrey Cox, former attorney general, who received £1.8m from Withers LLP, an international law firm.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Boris Johnson declares £1m donation from ex-Brexit Party bankroller
Boris Johnson declares £1m donation from ex-Brexit Party bankroller
Former prime minister Boris Johnson arrives to give a speech at the Carlton Club in St James’s, London on Tuesday
Boris Johnson declares £1m donation from ex-Brexit Party bankroller
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
£50 cash with friend referrals at Virgin Mobile
15% off extra plans with this Vodafone promo
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
