Who is Richard Sharp? BBC chairman alleged to have helped Boris Johnson secure £800,000 loan | The Independent
Former banker worked for more than 30 years in the financial sector, including a 23-year stint at investment giant Goldman Sachs
 UK Politics","bundle":"section","extra":{"isHideCommenting":false,"isHideNewsletterSignUp":false,"isCommercial":false,"isDisableAllSlots":false,"isDisableSponsoredCapsule":false,"field_disable_affiliates":false,"titleSEO":"UK Politics News | Boris Johnson, Brexit and Keir Starmer latest news and updates"}}]}
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Who is Richard Sharp? BBC chairman who ‘helped Boris Johnson secure £800,000 loan’
Former banker worked for more than 30 years in the financial sector, including a 23-year stint at investment giant Goldman Sachs
BBC panel asked by chair Richard Sharp to review potential conflict of interest over Boris Johnson loan
Sign up for the View from Westminster email for expert analysis straight to your inbox
Get our free View from Westminster email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
BBC chairman Richard Sharp made “significant errors of judgement” by failing to declare his role in 
facilitating an £800,000 loan for Boris Johnson
 weeks before the then-prime minister recommended him for the role, a committee of MPs has found.
The damning report also found he should “consider the impact of his omissions” on trust in the BBC, and his own appointment.
The former banker, who is in his 60s, worked for more than 30 years in the financial sector, including a 23-year stint at investment giant 
, where he was reportedly mentored by Prime Minister Rishi Sunak.
Before this, he worked in both commercial and investment banking for JP Morgan.
Richard Sharp is a former member of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee
Mr Sharp, who read philosophy, politics and economics at Oxford University, is also a former chairman and an emeritus trustee of the Royal Academy.
He reportedly acted as an informal adviser to Mr Sunak at the beginning of the pandemic and played a key role in the creation of the Government’s £1.57 billion culture recovery fund.
BBC chairman Sharp ‘sorry’ about Johnson loan row ‘distraction’
‘Absolute nonsense’: Boris Johnson breaks silence over BBC chairman’s role in loan row
BBC to review any conflict of interest over chair’s role in Boris Johnson loan
He was also a member of the Bank of England’s 
 from 2013 until 2019, and sits on the board of the Centre for Policy Studies, the think tank founded by former prime minister Margaret Thatcher in the 1970s.
Mr Sharp’s appointment as chairman of the BBC, during one of the most turbulent periods in its history in February 2021, was widely regarded as political.
At the time, the corporation faced scrutiny over equal pay, diversity, free TV licences for the over-75s and competition from streaming services like Netflix.
Mr Sharp, who is a multimillionaire and has appeared on the Sunday Times Rich List, is a long-term donor to the Conservative Party and sat on Boris Johnson’s board of economic advisers when he was London mayor.
Boris Johnson said Mr Sharp “knows absolutely nothing about my personal finances” 
During his tenure at the BBC, he has defended the broadcaster on numerous occasions and used his platform to highlight the importance of journalism in speaking “truth to power” while lamenting the threat of disinformation faced by the industry.
In 2021, he denied the controversy over the hiring of Jess Brammar as head of news channels had “tainted” her appointment, after her impartiality was questioned following the emergence of old tweets in which she was critical of Brexit.
Last year he criticised the government’s two-year freeze of the licence fee, describing it as “disappointing” and saying it will lead to “tougher choices” that will affect viewers.
But later in the year, he said the board “welcomes an informed debate” about the future funding of the broadcaster and “nothing should be off the table”.
He also said former BBC presenter 
 was “completely wrong” to suggest that “due process wasn’t followed” after she criticised the way the corporation handled her Newsnight speech about Dominic Cummings.
Mr Sharp is a long-term donor to the Conservative Party
In an apparent reference to former prime minister Theresa May’s former communications director Sir 
, Ms Maitlis said there was an “active agent of the Conservative party” on the BBC board and that the corporation “sought to pacify” Number 10 after her monologue about the then-chief adviser’s trip to Durham during lockdown.
The chairman told the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee (DCMS) that Ms Maitlis’s apparent description of Sir Robbie was “completely wrong” and he was “disappointed” she made that point.
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Mr Sharp told the Sunday Times, which reported his alleged involvement in helping arrange Mr Johnson’s loan, that he had “simply connected” people and there was no conflict of interest.
Mr Johnson’s spokesman said the newspaper’s report was “rubbish” and that his financial arrangements “have been properly declared”.
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies
Who is Richard Sharp, the BBC chairman at centre of Boris loan scandal
Who is Richard Sharp, the BBC chairman at centre of Boris loan scandal
Richard Sharp is a former member of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee
Who is Richard Sharp, the BBC chairman at centre of Boris loan scandal
Boris Johnson said Mr Sharp “knows absolutely nothing about my personal finances” 
Who is Richard Sharp, the BBC chairman at centre of Boris loan scandal
Mr Sharp is a long-term donor to the Conservative Party
Who is Richard Sharp, the BBC chairman at centre of Boris loan scandal
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
Get £100 off bookings over £1500 with this Expedia discount code
At least 10% less than RRP across all departments at TK Maxx
20% off app orders using this The Hut promo code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
