Judge won&#x27;t drop charges for former gubernatorial candidate | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
Judge won&#x27;t drop charges for former gubernatorial candidate
A federal judge in Florida has refused to throw out criminal charges against former Democratic gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum
Sign up for the daily Inside Washington email for exclusive US coverage and analysis sent to your inbox
Get our free Inside Washington email
Please enter a valid email address
Please enter a valid email address
I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our 
Thanks for signing up to the
Something went wrong. Please try again later
 A federal judge in Florida has refused to throw out criminal charges against 
, disagreeing with the former 
 gubernatorial nominee's assertions that he was the victim of selective prosecution because he was a Black candidate for governor.
Gillum and a colleague were indicted earlier this year on federal charges including conspiracy, wire fraud and making false statements to 
 agents. Prosecutors said Gillum funneled donations through third parties back to himself for personal use. 
According to prosecutors, Gillum met with undercover FBI agents posing as developers while he was mayor of 
 and during his campaign for governor. His associates sought donations from the agents, and suggested ways to provide money without listing them as political contributions, including paying for a fundraising dinner, according to the indictment.
Gillum has pleaded not guilty and denied the charges, saying they were politically motivated.
Saying the defendants' arguments were “meritless," U.S. District Judge Allen Winsor last week dismissed four motions from the defendants challenging the continuation of the prosecution.
Ukraine war’s heaviest fight rages in east - follow live
Charity boss speaks out over ‘traumatic’ encounter with royal aide
Gillum had asked that the charges be dismissed because prosecutors delayed filing them and he was being prosecuted because of his race and politics. The judge who was appointed by former President Donald Trump said Gillum had offered nothing to support the claim of selective prosecution because of his race or politics.
Gillum, who is Black, was the Democratic gubernatorial nominee in 2018 and narrowly lost the race to Republican Ron DeSantis. After losing, Gillum was still seen as a rising star in Democratic politics and was hired as a CNN analyst.
Then, in March 2020, Gillum was found intoxicated and unconscious in a hotel room with two men, including one who works as a male escort. Two days later he entered a rehabilitation center, and later did a television interview in which he said he’s bisexual.
Judge won&#x27;t drop charges for former gubernatorial candidate
Judge won&#x27;t drop charges for former gubernatorial candidate
Copyright 2020 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
20% off selected fashion and sportswear at Very
Get up to 10% off using the Booking.com app
$6 off a $50+ order with this AliExpress discount code
Get 10% off homeware &amp; appliances with this eBay discount code
Compare broadband packages side by side to find the best deal for you
Compare cheap broadband deals from providers with fastest speed in your area
All you need to know about fibre broadband
Best Apple iPhone Deals in the UK May 2023
Compare iPhone contract deals and get the best offer this May
Compare the best mobile phone deals from the top networks and brands
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
Please refresh your browser to be logged in
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google 
