HENDRY DEEDES says Keir Starmer is struggling to shed his image as the Tim Henman of politics  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
'I’ve seen grittier performances in lost episodes of Crossroads': HENDRY DEEDES says Keir Starmer is struggling to shed his image as the Tim Henman of politics
Henry Deedes for the Daily Mail
 17:56, 18 January 2023 
 18:29, 18 January 2023 
Back in the days when Tim Henman was the lonely standard-bearer for British tennis, his sponsors struck upon a scheme to toughen up his image.
The softly spoken, public school-educated darling of the home counties lacked the necessary steel for an international sports star. Too prim, too proper, they thought.
The poor marketing men at Adidas tried just about everything: new clothes, new haircut. They even suggested old Henners stop shaving for a few days to appear more rugged.
Even then, he appeared about as menacing as a Hare Krishna monk.
A similarly doomed project seems to be under way among Labour’s image-makers to give Sir Keir Starmer a flintier makeover.
 The poor marketing men at Adidas even suggested old Henners stop shaving for a few days to appear more rugged, and a similarly doomed project seems to be under way to give Sir Keir Starmer a flintier makeover
'It took two seconds before the Scots Nats benches erupted...
Sir Keir squawked the same old slogans he's been parroting...
At PMQs, the opposition leader has begun to adopt a more snarling, aggressive tone — all ‘come on ‘ave a go’ and ‘in-yer-face’ attitude.
Should he arrive in the Commons over the coming weeks sporting a Hells Angels jacket and a pair of bovver boots (vegan-friendly), we should not be too surprised.
The problem is he remains so woefully wooden. I’ve seen grittier performances in lost episodes of Crossroads.
You can just see the voice coach over at Labour HQ having kittens: ‘Keir darling, let’s try it one more — but this time do you think we might inject a bit of oomph into it? You’re auditioning to be Prime Minister, not the voice of the talking clock.’
Yesterday, Sir Keir chose to zero in on ambulance waiting times. He asked the House to imagine that someone, somewhere in the country at that moment was experiencing chest pains and required urgent medical attention. (For some reason I was reminded of that tale about U2 singer Bono informing an audience that every time he clapped his hands a child in Africa died. To which someone replied: ‘Well, stop doing it then!’)
Considering the pummelling the PM gave him the week before, Rishi would probably have been happy to follow Sir Keir down a dark alley with a blindfold on
Starmer asked the Prime Minister how long he reckoned the ambulance would take to reach them. Rishi smiled as though content to follow his opponent down this avenue.
Mind you, considering the pummelling the PM gave him the week before, Rishi would probably have been happy to follow Sir Keir down a dark alley with a blindfold on.
He pointed out that Starmer had opposed the Government’s anti-strike Bill — if Labour were in charge, some days the ambulance wouldn’t even leave the hospital car park.
Sir Keir leapt to his feet as though having a Eureka moment. Classic Sunak — ‘Deflect, blame others, never take responsibility!’ Starmer declared.
Bravely, he chose to continue with his imaginary tale of coronary distress, though it was clear his dramatic story was failing to grip the chamber in the manner he had envisaged.
Just as the pub bore drones on undeterred long after last orders, so Starmer pressed ahead
Conservative MPs folded their arms and impatiently checked their watches. Even Labour’s Home Affairs spokesman Yvette Cooper began to steal sly peeks at her phone.
Yet, just as the pub bore drones on undeterred long after last orders, so Starmer pressed ahead.
He relayed to the House the news that our patient was now ‘in a bad way — sweating, dizzy’. So were most of us in the press gallery over the length of time this story was going on for.
Still Rishi refused to be drawn into the guessing game.
Eventually, Sir Keir put us out of our misery by announcing an ambulance could take as long as an hour and forty minutes to arrive. In comparison with Sir Keir’s endless yarn, that now seemed decidedly speedy.
The rest of their exchanges? Oh, just the usual back and forth of familiar insults. Starmer accused Rishi of ‘playing politics’. Rishi replied that the Labour leader was the ‘living example of political games’ and ‘in the pocket of his union paymasters’. Tepid, knockabout stuff in other words. Neither of our combatants quite live up to their ‘hard man’ billing, however much their spin doctors might try and convince us otherwise.
Share or comment on this article: 
HENDRY DEEDES says Keir Starmer is struggling to shed his image as the Tim Henman of politics 
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
