Keir Starmer jibes at Rishi Sunak for not having joined him in schmoozing business elites in Davos | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Keir Starmer jibes at Rishi Sunak for not having joined him in schmoozing business elites in Davos - as Labour leader claims PM's absence is evidence of Britain's economic 'drift'
Keir Starmer jibes at Rishi Sunak for not having joined him in attending Davos
Labour leader claims the PM's absence is a sign of Britain's economic 'drift'
This week's event is first in-person World Economic Forum since the pandemic 
Greg Heffer, Political Correspondent For Mailonline
 15:43, 19 January 2023 
 21:32, 19 January 2023 
 for not having joined him in schmoozing business elites in Davos.
The Labour leader used an appearance at the World Economic Forum to claim the Prime Minister's absence from the event was a sign of Britain's economic 'drift'.
He claimed Mr Sunak 'should have showed up' and insisted his own attendance -  together with shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves - was a 'statement of intent' about Labour's efforts to seize power from the 
This week's gathering in Davos, the Swiss ski resort, is the first in-person World Economic Forum since the Covid pandemic began.
It is being attended by the usual cast of global politicians and business elites.
But the PM is not attending with Downing Street having said his focus is on domestic matters such as the economy, the NHS and the Channel migrant crisis.
Sir Keir Starmer today jibed at Rishi Sunak for not having joined him in schmoozing business elites in Davos
The Labour leader used an appearance at the World Economic Forum to claim the Prime Minister's own absence from the event was a sign of Britain's economic 'drift'
Sir Keir insisted his own attendance - together with shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves - was a 'statement of intent' about Labour's efforts to seize power from the Tories
The PM is not attending with Downing Street having said his focus is on domestic matters such as the economy, the NHS and the Channel migrant crisis
Starmer admits he prefers Davos over Westminster - and picks Morgan over Corbyn 
 Keir Starmer has admitted he prefers Davos to Westminster in an episode of the News Agents podcast.
'Westminster is too constrained,' he said.
'Once you get out of Wesminster, whether it's Davos or anywhere else, you actually engage with people that you can see working with in the future.
'Westminster is just a tribal shouting place.'
Sir Keir was also asked whether he would prefer to sit next to Piers Morgan or his predecessor, Jeremy Corbyn, as two fellow Arsenal fans.
'Piers Morgan,' Sir Keir swiftly replied.
Appearing at a Davos panel event today, Sir Keir claimed Mr Sunak's absence was being noted at the gathering.
'Yes, I think our PM should have showed up at Davos,' the Labour leader said.
'One of the things that's been impressed on me since I've been here is the absence of the UK.
'That's why it's really important that I'm here and that our shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves is here.
'As a statement of intent that should there be a change of government – and I hope there will be – the UK will play its part on the global stage in a way I think it probably hasn't in recent years.'
Sir Keir also claimed Mr Sunak's decision not to attend the World Economic Forum was evidence of Britain's 'drift'.
The Labour leader attacked a 'failure to grow the economy' during the Conservatives' time in power.
'I think that if you look at the UK, for 13 years the Achilles heel has been failure to grow the economy, and so this predated Brexit,' he said.
'Brexit made that even harder and that's why we've been making the case for a closer economic relationship with the EU.
'But it's not just the EU, we've not had a strategic plan in the UK for 10 years. And if you don't have a strategic plan, it's very hard to attract investment.'
Sir Keir blamed a lack of foreign investment on a 'sense of instability and drift' caused by the recent turmoil in the Tory party.
'We've got all the attributes for investment, we just need to create the circumstances, the environment in which we can change around what I think is the drift,' he added.
'The fact that our PM is not here I think is evidence of the drift. And we intend to reverse that.'
Sir Tony Blair also spoke at a Davos event today, with the ex-PM telling an audience 'there's "unforgivable" politics and "forgivable" politics' in the response to pandemics
Greta Thunberg accuses Davos billionaires of 'fuelling the...
Klitschko brothers make Boris Johnson an honorary citizen of...
Former Labour leader Sir Tony Blair also spoke at a Davos event today, with the ex-PM telling an audience 'there's "unforgivable" politics and "forgivable" politics' in the response to pandemics.
'The unforgivable politics is turning a public health issue into a political issue,' Sir Tony said.
'What's unforgivable is turning things like whether you wear a face mask or not into a political issue - that is unforgivable and stupid.
'But there's a forgivable politics. If you're a politician and you're facing an election and you've got the ability to vaccinate your people, you're going to vaccinate you're people first.
'The question really is, how do you create a situation in which that more forgiveable political anxiety is dealt with by a plan that allows you now to work on what are the elements you're going to need in order for this to be dealt with in the future equitably and properly.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Keir Starmer jibes at Rishi Sunak for not having joined him in schmoozing business elites in Davos
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
