Anthony Albanese grilled over Voice referendum on Nine's Today show | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Today Show host points out a major problem with Anthony Albanese's Indigenous Voice to Parliament
Anthony Albanese has been called out by Today Show host
Sarah Abo says people confused by Indigenous Voice to Parliament
Jesse Hyland For Daily Mail Australia
 04:08, 23 January 2023 
 04:57, 23 January 2023 
 has broken down his Indigenous Voice to Parliament proposal once again after being called out 
by Today Show host Sarah Abo who says Aussies are 'confused' by it.
Ms Abo grilled Mr Albanese over the proposal on Monday morning, claiming it had become 'quite the mess' as the federal opposition calls for more detail on the proposed body, which would be established after a successful referendum.
'Why won't you sit down and discuss this so that there is more clarity out there for the public so we can actually achieve the outcomes that you're after?'
'You have the community trying to get some consensus between you and the Opposition. Why don't you sit down and discuss this so you can achieve the outcomes that you are after,' Ms Abo asked.
Anthony Albanese (pictured) has broken down The Voice once again after complaints from the opposition that the proposal was 'confusing' and needed further detail 
'I've had five meetings with Peter Dutton, Sarah, five meetings,' the Prime Minister responded.
'And last July, I put forward the actual questions that will be asked in the referendum.'
But Ms Abo claimed that Aussies were 'still confused' over the proposal and a deeper explanation was needed.
'You don't need all the detail, but you need a bit more detail, so it's easier to digest. Is it even necessary?' she asked Mr Albanese.
'The two simple things that people will be asked to vote yes to in the referendum are, one, to recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in our constitution,' the Prime Minister reiterated.
Lidia Thorpe brags about Dan Andrews quietly cancelling...
Youthful photo of Jacinda Ardern and her successor Chris...
'The second is to allow an advisory body, to be called "The Voice", to be created to give advice to government, to the parliament, about issues that directly impact Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.'
'A Voice to Parliament will not be a funding body. It will not run programs, it will simply be a source of advice to government,' Mr Albanese explained.
He added that there had been no changes to the proposal since he announced it back in July. 
Asked if the government would push through legislation if the referendum failed, Mr Albanese said he was rather focused on ensuring a successful vote. 
The Prime Minister appeared on The Today show on Monday to discuss The Voice as well as the state of the economy, cost of living pressures and energy
Australians will be asked to vote on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people being recognised in the constitution and the formation of an advisory group to advise the government on matters impacting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people (pictured, protest opposing the date of Australia Day in Melbourne)
Mr Albanese explained that there had been no changes to the proposal since he announced it back in July (pictured, Mr Albanese at the Garma Festival last year)
It comes as both treasurer Jim Chalmers and environment minister Tanya Plibersek weighed into the debate.
The environment minister cautioned Australians not to confuse the status of the proposed Indigenous voice to parliament.
'This is a voice, not a veto,' she told the Seven Network on Monday.
'It is a really important vote. It will be a chance for Australians to talk about the sort of nation we want to be in the future, to send a message to the world and get more practical delivery of healthcare and education and so on for First Nations Australians.' 
Dr. Chalmers rubbished claims from opposition leader Peter Dutton that the proposal didn't provide enough detail.
'Peter Dutton is not genuinely looking for more detail, he's looking for more division and in that I think he is a very similar kind of leader to Tony Abbott and Scott Morrison,' Dr. Chalmers said at a press conference on Sunday.
'No wonder they're talking about bringing Tony Abbott back, then they'd have the full set, three peas in a pod.
'They all practice this kind of divisive and destructive brand of politics that says the surest way for them to succeed politically is to tear down these sort of opportunities that Australia faces in 2023 and beyond.'
Peter Dutton (pictured) said he was focused on whether The Voice would provide action in addressing racial inequality
Treasurer Jim Chalmers (pictured) has rubbished calls from the opposition leader for more detail, saying Mr Dutton was only concerned with creating division 
Mr Dutton said on Sunday any proposal would need to address racial inequalities and improve reconciliation.
However he stopped short of officially endorsing the need for a voice, saying there needed to be tangible action first.
'It's not so much in my mind whether or not there's a voice, it's whether there's action from the government,' he told Sky News Australia.
'I want an outcome that's going to bring an end to the violence, the sexual assaults on children taking place in Alice Springs at the moment.
'Their voice is not being heard now.'
A referendum will be called to change the wording in Australia's Constitution to recognise Indigenous people and establish a voice to parliament.
A date has not been set but Prime Minister Anthony Albanese confirmed a referendum would take place before the end of the year.
What will the referendum question be?
The draft referendum question is: "Do you support an alteration to the constitution that establishes an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander voice?"
What is a voice to parliament?
An advisory body parliament would consult with on legislative matters that affect Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.
It would not be able to veto decisions made by the federal government or cabinet.
The federal parliament will legislate details about how the body is formed and operates if the referendum is successful.
What other changes will be made to the constitution?
The federal government will recommend three sentences be added:
1. There shall be a body, to be called the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander voice.
2. The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander voice may make representations to parliament and the executive government on matters relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
3. The parliament shall, subject to this constitution, have power to make laws with respect to the composition, functions, powers and procedures of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander voice.
Do the Liberal and National parties support the voice to parliament?
The National Party has formally announced it will oppose the referendum while the Liberal Party room has not revealed its position.
Nationals Leader David Littleproud said his party did not believe a voice would help close the gap to improve the lives of Indigenous Australians.
Opposition Leader Peter Dutton has not yet revealed whether the Liberal Party would support a referendum but has called for more detail about the advisory body.
Will there be more details about how the voice will operate?
A referendum working group co-chaired by Indigenous Australians Minister Linda Burney and made up of representatives from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities across Australia will release more details before a vote is held.
Share or comment on this article: 
Anthony Albanese grilled over Voice referendum on Nine's Today show
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
