Ivanka Trump is all smiles in a high-cut black swimsuit as she enjoys a day of jet skiing | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Still living her best post-politics life! Ivanka Trump is all smiles in a high-cut black swimsuit as she enjoys a day of jet skiing and fishing in Miami with her sons Joseph and Theodore
Ivanka, 41, shared photos from the family outing on Instagram Stories Sunday
She was photographed making the 'hang loose' gesture while posing on a Yamaha WaveRunner with her nine-year-old son, Joseph 
The former White House senior adviser was wearing a black high-cut one-piece, dark sunglasses, and a life vest while smiling brightly for the camera 
Another image showed six-year-old Theodore fishing off the back of the boat 
Water sports have become a natural pastime for Ivanka and her family following their move to Florida in January 2021 
 18:52, 9 January 2023 
 21:22, 9 January 2023 
 enjoyed a day of jet skiing and fishing with her sons Joseph and Theodore over the weekend as she 
The former White House senior adviser took to her Instagram Stories on Sunday to share snapshots from their private boat outing in Miami, which has become a regular pastime for her and her family. 
Ivanka, 41, wore a black high-cut one-piece and a life vest while posing on a Yamaha WaveRunner. Her arms were extended, and she made the 'hang loose' gesture with her hands as she smiled for the camera.
She sported dark shades to shield her eyes from the blazing sun, and her blonde hair was pulled back in a messy bun. She also had a red string bracelet on her wrist, which she has been wearing off and on for years. 
Ivanka Trump, 41, enjoyed a day of jet skiing and fishing with her sons Joseph (pictured) and Theodore in Miami, Florida, on Sunday 
The former White House senior adviser shared snapshots from the outing on her Instagram Stories, including a picture of six-year-old Theodore fishing off the back of the boat 
Camille Vasquez, TV star! Johnny Depp's hotshot former...
Meet Hollywood's new 'terror icon': Movie fans go gaga for...
A real cliffhanger! Inside the $450-a-night Airbnb 'pods' in...
Although she hasn't spoken about the purpose of the bracelet, it does bear a resemblance to the type of red string that Kabbalah practitioners wear to ward off the 'evil eye.' 
was seated behind her and had his arms wrapped around her waist while they took the picture together. He also wore a life vest over his long-sleeve rash guard and striped swim trunks.  
Ivanka captioned the playful snapshot with the hang loose and water wave emojis. 
Another image showed six-year-old Theodore fishing off the back of the boat. He was dressed like his older brother in a blue rash guard, swim trunks featuring palm trees, and a life vest. The little boy also had on a sporty pair of Puma slides.
It's unclear if Ivanka's husband, Jared Kushner, or their 11-year-old daughter, Arabella, was with them on the outing.
The family will likely come together this week in celebration of Jared's birthday. The former White House senior adviser and author will turn 42 on January 10. 
It's unclear if Ivanka's husband, Jared Kushner, or their 11-year-old daughter, Arabella, was with them on the private boat 
Water sports have become a natural pastime Ivanka, a born and bred New Yorker, who has been taking wakeboarding lessons in her free time
Ivanka spent the first day of 2023 playing padel at billionaire businessman Wayne Boich's mansion in Miami. Padel could become her go-to sport in the new year
The couple relocated to Miami, Florida, with their three children after Ivanka's father, former President Donald Trump, left office in January 2021.
seems to be happier than ever in their new community, where they have found new friends and are renovating a 
After keeping a relatively low profile, the former first daughter has
 returned to documenting her life on Instagram, and she doesn't seem to have any desire to return to her old life in Washington, D.C.
In November, she released a statement saying she would not be a part of her father's 2024 presidential campaign. Instead, she has chosen to prioritize her family and their private life.  
Now that Ivanka is officially done with politics, she has been filling her days with workout sessions with her personal trainer. She is regularly spotted driving to and from the gym in matching workout sets that highlight her toned physique. 
Water sports have also become a natural pastime for the born and bred New Yorker, who has been taking wakeboarding lessons in her free time.
Ivanka and Jared are renovating a $24 million waterfront mansion that sits on 1.3 acres on Indian Creek, an exclusive island that is known as the 'Billionaire Bunker'
The couple has been seen enjoying walks to Indian Creek to check on the progress of their dream home, which they are expected to move into this year 
Back in September, she shared photos of herself wakeboarding underneath a rainbow that were so picturesque, she was accused of photoshopping the images.   
The family is often seen spending their afternoons on a chartered boat in Biscayne Bay, where they swim in the water and go tubing. They have regular trips to the beach, and her kids often have their boogie boards in tow. 
The mother of three still goes running with her husband, an activity they started doing together back when they still lived in New York City. They also enjoy bike rides, golf sessions, and long walks both with and without their three children. 
Ivanka may have another activity on her roster after spending the first day of 2023 playing padel with friends in Miami. The racquet sport, which is popular in Spain and Latin America, is usually played in doubles on a small, closed court. 
She was spotted arriving at the mansion of billionaire businessman Wayne Boich on New Year's Day in a black service car, dressed in a white tennis dress, visor, and sneakers, exclusive DailyMail.com photos show.
Ivanka, an avid tennis fan, appears to share a love for racquet sports with Boich, who earned his business degree at the University of Miami on a full tennis scholarship. 
The Ohio coal mining heir now runs the Miami Padel Open, a sporting event sponsored by high-end and luxury brands. Padel could become her go-to sport in the new year. 
Ivanka and Jared have spent the past two years living at Arte Surfside, a luxury condo building nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour
Arte Surfside has a tennis court on the roof and is one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month
The couple's condo, which has a private pool and yard, is set to hit the market for $18.8 million sometime this year 
Ivanka and her family have spent the past two years living at Arte Surfside, a luxury condominium building nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour.
one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month. There is a tennis court on the roof, and the family has their own private pool and yard. 
They are close to finishing the renovations on their dream home that sits on 1.3 acres on Indian Creek, an exclusive island that is known as the 'Billionaire Bunker.' 
The couple bought the fixer-upper a little over a year after they dropped $31.8 million on a two-acre plot of land on the island in 2020. 
They plan on moving into the spatial 8,500-square-foot abode once their extensive renovations are completed. 
Ivanka and Jared have been seen enjoying walks to Indian Creek, both with and without their children, to check on the progress of their property. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Ivanka Trump is all smiles in a high-cut black swimsuit as she enjoys a day of jet skiing
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
See the key trend collection from per una at M&S.  Shop now.
You can't fake TV chemistry - the camera doesn't lie: Louise Minchin warns viewers will always spot problems...
They're the 'guilt-free' doughnuts with the same calories as a glass of milk - but are they any good? We put...
Does your face need a high-tech four-day skin retreat?
Why you should cut that toxic friend out of your life: Mind Doctor MAX PEMBERTON reveals in the wake of the...
Why we should all lie more often: Expert reveals that fibbing can actually make you feel better
'What's it like being a royal?': Adorable moment little girl quizzes Kate at Chelsea Flower Show - as...
Sophie makes a secret trip to Iraq: Duchess of Edinburgh spends two days in Baghdad, Palace reveals, on...
'Smile, you're away from your desks': Prince William cracks jokes with staff during a visit to Earthshot...
Lady in red! Emma Weymouth dazzles in an embellished scarlet gown in Cannes at the Vogue Party
Kate reveals how she is still 'learning to be a royal': Dame Kelly Holmes tells how Princess of Wales told...
Here comes the bride! Queen Rania of Jordan makes an emotional tribute to her future daughter-in-law at&nbsp;...
'The jury's still out': Experts debate the Prince and Princess of Wales's 'slick' new Instagram videos as a...
'A peek behind the scenes!' Prince and Princess of Wales share new black-and-white image of piano-playing...
Sarah Ferguson reveals Princess Eugenie's due date and it's extremely close
PrettyLittleThing - Offers on women's clothing
Get inspired by the newest styles and offers
ASOS - Enjoy discounts from ASOS
Click through for ASOS promo codes this Autumn
Missguided - Get the latest fashion
Spend less with Missguided's exclusive codes
Treat yourself to offers on make-up and accessories
Check out the latest Wayfair sale to save on furniture
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
