Gordon Ramsay steps out with glamorous wife Tana and daughter Tilly | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Gordon Ramsay steps out with glamorous wife Tana and daughter Tilly as they attend the launch party of his new cooking show Next Level Chef
 22:46, 10 January 2023 
 23:04, 10 January 2023 
 appeared in high spirits as he attended the launch party of his new cooking show Next Level Chef with wife Tana and their daughter Tilly on Tuesday.
The chef, 56, and Tana, 43, tied the knot in 1996 and share kids Holly, Jacky, Tilly, Megan and Oscar. 
Gordon cut a dapper figure in a black blazer, teamed with matching trousers and a white t-shirt as he cosied up to the pair.  
Family: Gordon Ramsay appeared in high spirits as he attended the launch party of his new cooking show Next Level Chef with wife Tana and their daughter Tilly on Tuesday
Meanwhile, Tana looked effortlessly chic in a black blazer and leather trousers, teamed with a pale pink satin blouse. 
Tilly, 21, dressed identical to her mother, while styling her golden locks in bouncy curls. 
'You look great... we get it!' James Jordan tells wife Ola...
Mimi Bouchard is ENGAGED! Former Made In Chelsea star...
'I feel so beautiful and free': Love Island's Chyna Mills...
'My page was looking a little too perfect': Jorgie Porter...
Also in attendance and showing their support for Gordon's new show was Dancing On Ice legends Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean.
Dashing: The chef, 56, Gordon cut a dapper figure in a black blazer, teamed with matching trousers and a white t-shirt as he cosied up to the pair
Support: Also in attendance and showing their support for Gordon's new show was Dancing On Ice legends Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean
Gordon recently opened up on his new TV show Next Level Chef, where he told that his swearing if not only aimed at contestants, but his fellow judges too.
Next Level Chef will see an array of hopefuls including home cooks, influencers, and professional chefs battle it out for a £100,000 prize and 12-month mentorship.
He's joined by Californian chef Nyesha Arrington and his former protege Paul Ainsley, with Gordon telling how their first meeting for the show was 'packed with a lot of curse words.'
Outing: Camilla Kerslake and Chris Robshaw were also in attendance
He added: 'I’m not trying to make amends, it is an industry language, no different to politics over the last couple of months. There were a lot of f**ks coming out of there. It is an industry language, I don’t focus on the camera, I focus on the moment to make sure it is right.'
The chef went on to add that while he sometimes communicates with expletives, he has one definitive way of telling contestants he hates their food - by spitting it out.
He added that if something appears inedible to him, there would be 'no way on Earth' that he'd swallow it.  
Family: The chef, 56, and Tana, 43, tied the knot in 1996 and share kids Holly, Jacky, Tilly, Megan and Oscar
Gordon's Future Food Stars aired for the first time in 2022 on BBC One and the second series will begin later this year.
The show saw Gordon challenge cooking hopefuls with a series of tasks, explaining in episode one that his aim was to 'catapult someone to the next level and invest £150,000 of my own cash into their business.'
Gordon stated that he 'handpicked' 12 of the UK's best up and coming food and drink entrepreneurs, with the show later being dubbed as 'The Apprentice of food.'
New show: Next Level Chef will see an array of hopefuls including home cooks, influencers, and professional chefs battle it out for a £100,000 prize and 12-month mentorship
It comes after Lord Sugar blasted Gordon by accusing the TV chef of 'ripping off' The Apprentice with his show Future Food Stars.
The tycoon, 75, told MailOnline that Gordon, 56, should 'stick to his day job' after he launched the new series last year, which sees 12 entrepreneurs compete for a £150,000 investment of the restaurateur's own money to start a food business.
He insists the format of Gordon's show that returns to BBC One with a second series later this year is a 'virtual rip-off' of The Apprentice and says he doesn't understand how lawyers allowed it to go ahead.
Speaking exclusively to MailOnline, Lord Sugar said: 'I think broadcasters, Channel 4, Channel 5, and ITV have tried for many years at least for 17 years to try and replicate the elimination process of The Apprentice. I say this with great respect to them but they've failed.
'Last year, Gordon Ramsay had some cockamamie idea… I like Gordon and I think he's very good and should stick to what he should do, cooking and all that stuff.
'He had some thing, which was like, I don't know how the lawyers allowed it because it was a virtual rip-off of The Apprentice. No disrespect to Gordon but stick to your day job mate that's all I would say.'
Gordon Ramsay's Future Food Stars aired for the first time in 2022 on BBC One and the second series will begin later this year.
Tense: It comes after Lord Sugar blasted Gordon by accusing the TV chef of 'ripping off' The Apprentice with his show Future Food Stars
Share or comment on this article: 
Gordon Ramsay steps out with glamorous wife Tana and daughter Tilly
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
