House Democratic leader's daughter in court accused of graffitiing 'All cops are bast**ds' | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
House Democratic leader's daughter accused of spray painting 'All cops are bast**ds' on Boston Common monument and punching cop during arrest appears in court to be charged
Riley Dowell, 23, is the daughter of Katherine Clark, the House Democratic Whip, and was arrested on Saturday night during Antifa protests in Boston
Dowell, who was born a male and transitioned, was arraigned on Monday on charges including assault on a police officer and vandalizing a monument
Dowell was released on a $500 bail: her mother said it was 'a difficult time' and said she had faith in the justice system 
 00:44, 24 January 2023 
 06:51, 24 January 2023 
The daughter of a top 
 was charged on Monday with graffitiing a Boston monument with the slogan 'all cops are b*****ds', flailing around during her arrest and smashing a police officer in the nose, giving him a nosebleed.
Riley Dowell, 23, appeared before a judge in Boston accompanied by her father, Rodney S. Dowell, a well-known local attorney and legal consultant.
Dowell, who was born male and transitioned to female, was arraigned under their birth name, Jared.
She pleaded not guilty to charges including assault and battery on a police officer and vandalizing a historic marker or monument. 
Riley Dowell, 23, appeared before a judge in Boston on Monday after being arrested amid Antifa protests on Saturday night
Dowell is seen with her father Rodney (right), an attorney and legal consultant
She was released on the $500 cash bail she had previously posted, with orders that she stay away from the Common while the case is pending. 
Dowell was one of around 20 Antifa protesters who took to the streets of Boston on Saturday evening. 
House Democratic leader's daughter is arrested after...
EXCLUSIVE - REVEALED: Atlanta Antifa terror suspect worked...
A police report filed in the case, cited by 
, said officers were on 'high alert' on Saturday, expecting an anti-law-enforcement demonstration in solidarity with 'Atlanta Forest Defenders'.
An environmental activist, who went by the name Tortuguita, 
Dowell was released on a $500 cash bail she had already posted
Riley is pictured in between her father Rodney and mother Katherine, with brothers Addison and Nathaniel
Riley Dowell frequently shared photos on social media
Tortuguita died on Wednesday as authorities cleared a small group of protesters from the site of a planned Atlanta-area public safety training center that activists have dubbed 'Cop City.'
Clark said in a statement that her daughter's arrest was a 'difficult time.' 
'Last night, my daughter was arrested in Boston, 
'I love Riley, and this is a very difficult time in the cycle of joy and pain in parenting. This will be evaluated by the legal system, and I am confident in that process.' 
Police allegedly witnessed Jared 'Riley' Dowell spray painting 'All Cops Are B****rds' and 'NO COP CITY' on a Parkman Bandstand Monument on the eastern side of the Boston Common on Saturday around 9.30pm
Katherine Clark's daughter Riley Dowell was arrested at an Antifa protests on Saturday night. Pictured: Clark and Dowell in 2016 
Clark, who is the House Minority Whip, addressed the contention around Dowell's arrest calling it a 'difficult time'
Police said that the protesters surrounded them while Dowell was arrested, with some shouting profanity through megaphones.
'During the arrest, the protest group of approximately 20 persons began to surround the [officers] while recording the incident on their cellphones,' the report said. 
'Many protesters were moving very close to officers in what appeared to be an attempt to interfere with the officers' lawful performance of their duties.' 
The protest led to traffic coming to a complete stop as participants created a scene on the sidewalk, police said. 
As one officer approached Dowell, she 'attempted to flee by flailing [her] arms, striking the officer,' police said. 
After a brief struggle, additional officers placed Dowell in custody, the report said. 
Dowell's backpack was allegedly 'found to contain the spray paint used in the incident,' the report said.
The injured officer was taken to a local hospital for evaluation.
Dowell, 23, was charged with Assault by Means of a Dangerous Weapon, Destruction or Injury of Personal Property and Damage of Property by Graffiti. Pictured: Clark and Dowell in 2018 
The Parkman Bandstand Monument is a landmark bandstand on the eastern side of the Boston Common in Boston 
Earlier this month, Clark spoke out about extremism in politics while pointing fingers at the GOP during the debate about whether to appoint Kevin McCarthy as Speaker of the House
Earlier this month, Clark spoke out about extremism in politics, while pointing fingers at the GOP during the debate about whether to appoint Kevin McCarthy as Speaker of the House. 
Clark insisted the Republicans did not support the same values as Democrats, such as equal pay for women, according to 
She claimed there was a disconnect between party leaders which was hindering Congress.
McCarthy failed to win enough votes to be elected as speaker for about two weeks. 
'Unable to organize, unable to govern, unable to lead,' Clark said, according to the news outlet. 
'Years of blindly pursuing power, currying the favor of special interests, and bowing to election deniers has left the GOP in shambles.'  
'Let's look at the extremists who have taken over,' she continued. 
Clark singled out Republican Representatives Lauren Boebert, Marjorie Taylor Greene, and Matt Gaetz.
'Let's stop with the campaign smears and tactics to get people to turn against us, even having my favorite president call us and tell us 'We need to knock this off.' 
'I think it actually needs to be reversed.'
Daughter of Rep. Katherine Clark arraigned for allegedly striking police officer during Boston Common protest - The Boston Globe
Share or comment on this article: 
House Democratic leader's daughter in court accused of graffitiing 'All cops are bast**ds'
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
