Keir Starmer 'plots New Year reshuffle' replacing failing shadow ministers | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Cabinet Office refers Boris Johnson to police over possible new lockdown breaches at Chequers and Downing Street amid claims ex-PM was visited by friends despite Covid restrictions
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
An 'alien message' will be sent from Mars to Earth TOMORROW: Scientists are set to simulate an ET signal to help decode them when actual contact is made
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet guest at premiere of Asteroid City
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are experiencing rapid population decline, according to new study
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just minutes after schoolboy's death
Grenfell fire investigator who killed himself by overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT commit suicide, inquest rules
Facebook owner Meta turns 'blind eye' to child sexual abuse, claims security minister Tom Tugendhat
Met Police insist cops who handcuffed furious motorist for pushing two Just Stop Oil eco-zealots to the ground 'responded in a proportionate manner' and say they will 'review evidence' and 'take further police action if necessary'
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant who knew his brother accessed his policework file then marked the reports 'no crime'
IOPC calls for a new national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation - in the wake of Wayne Couzens 'failures'
'Racist' police officers pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute, misconduct panel hears
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyoncé tour begins after council 'failed to extend their bookings'
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Keir Starmer 'plots New Year reshuffle' replacing failing shadow ministers with former New Labour ministers and rising stars as Labour confidence of election victory rises despite poll doubts
Labour leader said to be planning to axe under-achievers in his shadow Cabinet 
They would be replaced by slew of former New Labour ministers and rising stars
Among those tipped to return is ex-minister Hilary Benn, the hardline Remainer 
Party is short of MPs with previous ministerial experience under Blair and Brown 
David Wilcock, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline
 10:13, 2 January 2023 
 16:23, 6 January 2023 
 is plotting a New Year shake up of his shadow ministerial team as he prepares to potentially take power at the next election.
The Labour leader is said to be planning to get rid of under-achievers in his shadow Cabinet and replace them with former New Labour ministers and rising stars.
Among those tipped for a return is Hilary Benn, the hardline Remainer who was a Cabinet minister under 
Others who could be promoted include Darren Jones, the Business Committee chairman, and Stephen Morgan, the shadow schools minister, 
Mr Starmer's core top team of shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves, shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper and shadow foreign secretary David Lammy are believed to be safe despite some criticism. Cooper and Lammy are among the few members of the current shadow cabinet who have ministerial experience. 
It comes as Labour enjoys a sustained lead in opinion polls. A new analysis at the weekend suggested it is on course for a majority of at least 28 at the next election. But that is closer than previously though.
The Labour leader is said to be planning to get rid of low achievers in his shadow Cabinet and replace them with former New Labour ministers and rising stars.
Among those tipped for a return is Hilary Benn, the hardline Remainer who was a Cabinet minister under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.
While the headline figures put Labour on course to win 517 seats in the new parliament, Best for Britain said that falls to 353 - representing a majority of just 56- if the impact of the high number of 'don't knows' is factored in. It said its analysis suggests the bulk of the undecideds are likely to be 'timid Tories' - as they closely resemble the age and education profiles of people who say they intend to vote Conservative - who could return to the Tory fold come polling day.
Best for Britain, which campaigns for the Uk to rejoin the EU, suggested Labour may not be heading for the landslide many predict 
The finding is based on a survey of 10,010 people by pollsters Focaldata carried out around the time Liz Truss resigned in October, with a further 'top-up' poll of 2,000 people after Mr Sunak became Prime Minister.
While the headline figures put Labour on course to win 517 seats in the new parliament, Best for Britain said that falls to 353 - representing a majority of just 56 - if the impact of the high number of 'don't knows' is factored in.
It said its analysis suggests the bulk of the undecideds are likely to be 'timid Tories' - as they closely resemble the age and education profiles of people who say they intend to vote Conservative - who could return to the Tory fold come polling day.
The findings will however hearten the Tories as the Government enters the new year faced with a mountain of difficult issues - from the continuing cost-of-living crisis through to the small boat Channel crossings and the war in Ukraine.
Demands for House of Commons to be brought back from recess...
More than 17,000 shops shut in 2022 in worst year for retail...
The 2023 local elections will give 'clear indications' of where the political parties stand ahead of the next general election, a polling expert suggested today.
Conservative peer and elections analyst Lord Hayward said that thanks to the 'sheer scale' of the polls taking place across England, Labour, the Tories and the Liberal Democrats are likely to see the local elections as a precursor for the next nationwide parliamentary elections.
Political scientist Professor Sir John Curtice meanwhile suggested that more 'anti-Conservative' tactical voting will be likely in the 2023 local polls.
Thousands of seats across 230 councils in England will face elections on May 4, as well as four mayoralties.
Several English councils which usually elect councillors in a cycle of thirds will instead hold all-out full council elections in 2023 due to boundary changes.
All 11 Northern Ireland councils go to the polls two weeks later on May 18, with devolved Assembly elections also due to take place following the failure to form a powersharing executive in Stormont throughout 2022.
Lord Hayward told the PA news agency: 'Because of the sheer scale of the number of seats that are up, there is no question that all the political parties will look at the results in May and see the base from which they are working.
'Politics has been in chaos - and particularly the Conservative Party - in 2022, so each of the parties will look for the very clear indications as to where they stand after this great period of turmoil so that they can prepare for the general election, whenever it may come, probably in 2024.
'But they really want this as the solid base for going forward.'
He added: 'This coming local election cycle is the biggest of the four yearly cycles in that there are about 7,000 seats up, overwhelmingly in England, but not in London, and also in Northern Ireland.
Keeping up with the Joneses: Labour rising stars tipped for frontbench roles include Business Committee chairman Darren Jones, and shadow police and fire service minister Sarah Jones
'It is always relevant in these circumstances to look back at what happened in the last time these seats were up.'
He said that the Tories 'did appallingly in the Home Counties and the other middle class areas, to the benefit of the Lib Dems and residents groups' in past iterations of the same election cycle.
The Conservatives, he added, needed to make gains in 'remain-oriented, middle class, private sector, well-educated seats that you find in Surrey, Hertfordshire, Warwickshire, Cheshire' in order to build a good base for the general election.
'If they are to be seen to be making progress post-Rishi Sunak becoming Prime Minister and leader of the party, they will be looking to those territories to make gains,' he said, adding that these would also be likely Lib Dem target seats.
On Labour, Lord Hayward added: 'In the metropolitan districts, given how relatively poorly Labour did, which was then under Jeremy Corbyn's leadership, they must expect to make a lot of gains. The position is much better now than it was in 2019 in terms of the opinion polls.
'Clearly at this time of year, it is dangerous to make any specific projection, but the general expectation for the Labour Party should be that they will make gains relative to 2019.'
Prof Curtice meanwhile told PA that more tactical voting could be expected in the 2023 local polls.
The professor of politics at the University of Strathclyde said: 'The other thing we will be looking at the local elections for, because it was there in this year's elections really for the first time for quite some time, is the extent to which there is anti-Conservative tactical voting.
'The Liberal Democrats, even if they are not doing fantastically well across the board, do they in places where they are the principal challengers to Tories - and of course there is a lot of those kind of places polling next year - do they start to benefit from Labour voters voting tactically for them?
'That is one of the things we will certainty be on the lookout for in both directions, equally the Labour Party is benefiting from tactical switching by Liberal Democrats.
'Of course, if that happens then the losses of seats in councils for the Tories may well be notably worse than you might expect.'
Prof Curtice said there were likely to be few notably exciting results, but claimed that Labour could 'maybe' win a majority of seats at Conservative-controlled Walsall Council in the West Midlands.
'It is only a one-third election, it will need a very good performance', he said.
Prof Curtice added: 'If Labour are still 20-odd points ahead in the polls come this May, and obviously it is a long way yet, maybe they might just pick up the Wirral on the whole council election, but it won't be easy.'
The 2023 local elections will be the first poll in which voter ID will be required in England, following the passing of the Elections Act 2022.
Independent watchdog the Electoral Commission has raised concerns about the timetable for introducing voter ID, joining the Local Government Association in calling for the requirements to be delayed.
An earlier version of the article stated that Labour was estimated to win 383 seats in the next election, leading to a majority of 28 seats. This information is incorrect and the article has been amended to clarify that Labour were estimated to win 353 seats, with a majority of 56.
Keir Starmer to demote MPs who failed to shine in shadow cabinet | News | The Times
Share or comment on this article: 
Keir Starmer 'plots New Year reshuffle' replacing failing shadow ministers
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
