Gina Lollobridgia's former toyboy husband says he'll be 'front row' at funeral  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
Boris threatens to SUE the Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
Former Beatles bass player Chas Newby dies aged 81, with tributes pouring in for The Quarrymen musician
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet guest at premiere of Asteroid City
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls for an inquiry into her handling of a ticket
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are experiencing rapid population decline, according to new study
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just minutes after schoolboy's death
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Gina Lollobrigida's former toyboy husband, 61, who was 34 years her junior promises to be 'front row' at her funeral - despite their marriage being ANNULLED by the Vatican
The Italian actress passed away at the age of 95 yesterday
Her ex-husband Javier Rigau claims she asked to see him in her final days
The pair - who had a 34 year age gap - were first romantically involved in 2006 
 17:17, 17 January 2023 
 18:33, 17 January 2023 
Gina Lollobrigida's former toyboy husband has promised he will be 'front row' at her funeral - despite their marriage being annulled by the Vatican.    
, first become romantically with the late Italian actress - who 
Speaking to Spanish newspaper ABC, the Catalan businessman claimed Gina asked to see him before her death - despite the fact they were locked in legal battles over the past decade. 
He said: 'It's all very sad. Gina had me contacted through her son and last Friday we were able to say goodbye to each properly with her son and grandson.
Gina Lollobrigida and ex-husband Javier Rigau Rifols pictured at the 56th Red Cross Ball in 2006. The couple - who had a 34 year age gap - announced their engagement that year
Are the royal family poking fun at Harry and Meghan? From...
Cool in camel! Queen Letizia of Spain is elegant in tan coat...
'From that day I've been staying at a hotel a few feet away from the clinic.
'I'll stay with her son and grandson to organise the funeral where I will be in the front row.'
In 2006, the late Italian actress announced she was engaged to boyfriend Javier Rigau, who was 34 years her junior.
But two months later, the screen icon called off the nuptials. In November 2010, Gina alleged Javier staged a wedding in an attempt to get his hands on her fortune.
Gina and Javier's marriage was annulled by the Vatican in 2019, nine years after the actress claims her ex staged a fake wedding in a bid to steal her fortune
Six years later, she claimed in an Italian fraud and forgery trial that they had never consummated their relationship. 
She also claimed he tricked her into signing a power of attorney document following years of dating which Rigau says started when they met at a party in Monte Carlo in 1984 when he was 23 and Lollobrigida was 57. 
The actress - who starred alongside the likes of Humphrey Bogart and Frank Sinatra in her heyday and was often described as 'the most beautiful woman in the world - said: 'Even when we went travelling we slept in separate rooms and we never had intimate relations.'
In response, Javier shot back that the first thing Gina had taught him to say in Italian was: 'Let's be together. Let's f***.' 
He told Spanish website Vanitatis at the time: 'It's caused me great pain seeing Gina saying the things she has against our marriage.
'I've seen a person who doesn't resemble physically or mentally the one I had at my side for years [...]
Gina pictured at the height of her fame in the 1950s. The actress passed away at the age of 95 yesterday
Sophia Loren has paid tribute to her bitter rival, Italian actress and artist Gina Lollobrigida , a siren of the silver screen, who has died at the age of 95 (pictured, Gina Lollobrigida (right) alongside Sophia Loren (left) and Yvonne de Carlo in Germany in 1954) 
'If I say how old she was when she went to bed with me, I wouldn’t show her in a good light.'
In 2019, the Vatican officially annulled the couple's marriage. However, ABC published documentation last year claiming to show Rigau and Lollobrigida remained legally married.
She launched legal action in Italy against the Spaniard after a court in Barcelona closed its probe into allegations Rigau attempted to swindle his former partner through the proxy marriage at a civil ceremony in the Catalan capital. 
He insisted in a February 2013 UK newspaper interview: “Gina and I married for love and despite everything I still love her very much.”
Speaking after the Vatican annulment of the marriage, Javier said: “The Pope has seen fit to make a Solomonic decision. Thus, hearing only one of the parties and in view of her advanced age, he has granted her the waiver to annul the marriage, but recognizing its full validity from the beginning.”
He has consistently claimed the actress denied knowledge of their wedding after coming under the influence of manager Andrea Piazzolla who her family has accused of defrauding Gina.
Gina had been hospitalised for some time at the Rome clinic where she died after undergoing an operation in September for a broken femur.
Once known as the Mona Lisa of the 20th century thanks to her beauty, Miss Lollobrigida was a legend of 1950s and 60s cinema, who later moved away from the film world to take up photography and sculpture.
She even made a foray into politics last year, standing in the Italian general election just after her 95th birthday, though she failed to gain election to parliament.
Miss Lollobrigida was one of the leading stars of Italian post-war cinema at the height of her fame in the 1950s and 1960s
This followed her unsuccessful bid to stand in the European Parliament in 1999, representing Romano Prodi's centrist Democratici party.
Known as 'La Lollo', at the height of her fame in the 1950s and 1960s Miss Lollobrigida was an international sex symbol and one of the leading stars of Italian post-war cinema - rivalled only by Sophia Loren, with whom she had an ongoing feud.
Are the royal family poking fun at Harry and Meghan? From...
Cool in camel! Queen Letizia of Spain is elegant in tan coat...
Leading the tributes to Gina, according to Variety, Loren said in a statement she 'is deeply shaken and saddened' by the news of Lollobrigida's death.
There was still some apparent ill-feeling as recently as 2017, with Miss Lollobrigida telling an Italian newspaper that she 'was not looking for any rivalry against anyone', while describing herself as the 'number one'.
The pair had reportedly shared a war of words, with Miss Loren, now 88, describing herself as the 'bustier' of the two, and Miss Lollobrigida retorting that her rival could 'play a peasant, but never a lady'.
But Miss Lollobrigida dismissed the feud as a PR invention kept alive for decades by Miss Loren's team.
Paying tribute to Miss Lollobrigida, Italian culture minister Gennaro Sangiuliano said: 'Farewell to a diva of the silver screen, protagonist of more than half a century of Italian cinema history. Her charm will remain eternal.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Gina Lollobridgia's former toyboy husband says he'll be 'front row' at funeral 
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
See the key trend collection from per una at M&S.  Shop now.
You can't fake TV chemistry - the camera doesn't lie: Louise Minchin warns viewers will always spot problems...
They're the 'guilt-free' doughnuts with the same calories as a glass of milk - but are they any good? We put...
Does your face need a high-tech four-day skin retreat?
Why you should cut that toxic friend out of your life: Mind Doctor MAX PEMBERTON reveals in the wake of the...
Why we should all lie more often: Expert reveals that fibbing can actually make you feel better
'What's it like being a royal?': Adorable moment little girl quizzes Kate at Chelsea Flower Show - as...
Sophie makes a secret trip to Iraq: Duchess of Edinburgh spends two days in Baghdad, Palace reveals, on...
'Smile, you're away from your desks': Prince William cracks jokes with staff during a visit to Earthshot...
Lady in red! Emma Weymouth dazzles in an embellished scarlet gown in Cannes at the Vogue Party
Kate reveals how she is still 'learning to be a royal': Dame Kelly Holmes tells how Princess of Wales told...
Here comes the bride! Queen Rania of Jordan makes an emotional tribute to her future daughter-in-law at&nbsp;...
'The jury's still out': Experts debate the Prince and Princess of Wales's 'slick' new Instagram videos as a...
'A peek behind the scenes!' Prince and Princess of Wales share new black-and-white image of piano-playing...
Sarah Ferguson reveals Princess Eugenie's due date and it's extremely close
PrettyLittleThing - Offers on women's clothing
Get inspired by the newest styles and offers
ASOS - Enjoy discounts from ASOS
Click through for ASOS promo codes this Autumn
Missguided - Get the latest fashion
Spend less with Missguided's exclusive codes
Treat yourself to offers on make-up and accessories
Check out the latest Wayfair sale to save on furniture
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
