Two thirds say Sam Bankman-Fried should be convicted for crypto swindling, many view him unfavorably | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Sorry, Sam! Two thirds of Americans say Bankman-Fried should be convicted for crypto swindling, many view the disgraced FTX founder unfavorably and want digital currencies more regulated, says poll
65 percent of Americans say crypto 'crook' Bankman-Fried should be convicted
36 percent view him unfavorably, against only 16 percent with favorable views 
Democratic and Republican voters agree that he should face the music
Backers of both parties also want the government to regulate digital money
Bankman-Fried was set to make his first US court appearance on Thursday
He faces eight fraud counts over the Caribbean cryptocurrency scandal 
James Reinl, Social Affairs Correspondent, For Dailymail.Com
 17:16, 22 December 2022 
 20:33, 22 December 2022 
Two thirds of Americans say 
 should be convicted for swindling investors and looting customer deposits on his 
 trading platform, according to a poll released on Thursday as he made his first US court appearance.
YouGov pollsters found that 65 percent of respondents said the 30 year-old should face justice, while 56 percent predicted that he would indeed be convicted over the biggest scandal in the history of digital currencies.
'As Bankman-Fried returns to the US, 
 are united in support of his conviction for his actions while leading FTX,' researchers said.
'Members of both parties also are more likely to support than oppose more government regulation of cryptocurrency.'
The survey found that more than a third of respondents had an unfavorable opinion of the 30-year-old, who was arrested in the Bahamas last week, and flown to New York late on Wednesday after deciding not to challenge his extradition.
Republicans have a lower estimation of Bankman-Fried than do their Democratic counterparts, with nearly half of GOP voters viewing him unfavorably. He was a big donor to the Democratic Party and liberal causes.
Still, the survey of 1,500 adults found that more than half of both Democrats and Republicans agree on one thing – that the poorly understood digital currency sector needs to be more regulated by the government.
Mother of crypto 'crook' Sam Bankman-Fried walks into NYC...
Sam Bankman-Fried's ex-girlfriend and FTX co-founder plead...
Crypto 'crook' Sam Bankman-Fried flies back to New York to...
Bleary-eyed, Sam? FTX founder Bankman-Fried 'dozed off and...
The poll was carried out between December 17 and 20, in the wake of the collapse of FTX and its sister trading house Alameda Research went bankrupt last month, dissolving a virtual trading business that was valued by the market at $32 billion.
Prosecutors allege Bankman-Fried cheated investors and misused funds that belonged to FTX, which he founded, and Alameda Research customers.
He has been charged with conspiracy, wire fraud, money laundering and election finance violations, and was due in court today in New York City.
His mother, Barbara Fried, a law professor at Stanford, arrived at Manhattan Federal Court on Thursday, where her son faced an arraignment for fraud as FTX continues its spectacular collapse.
While he was in en route to New York, the US attorney in Manhattan Damian Williams announced that two of Bankman-Fried's closest business associates had also been charged and had secretly pleaded guilty.
Williams also gave a stern warning to all crypto crooks to come forward while plea deals are still on the table. 
Carolyn Ellison, 28, the former chief executive of Bankman-Fried's trading firm, Alameda Research, and Gary Wang, 29, who co-founded FTX, pleaded guilty to charges including wire fraud, securities fraud and commodities fraud.
Officials with the FBI and the US Marshals Service – which handles transportation of individuals in US custody – arrived in the island's capital, before he was transported off the territory overnight.   
A plane taxis toward the runway at Odyssey Aviation with FTX co-founder Sam Bankman-Fried on board as he is extradited to the United States on December 21, 2022 in Nassau, Bahamas
US Attorney Damian Williams (pictured) announced Wednesday Fried would be 'transported directly to the Southern District of New York' on arrival in the United States
He arrived at Odyssey executive jet facility next to Lynden Pindling International Airport for his flight to the US in darkness at 6.25pm – in a nine-vehicle convoy with SWAT team SUVs, their sirens and lights blazing.
Earlier in the Bahamas - where FTX is headquartered - he had waived his right to challenge the US extradition request, the island nation's attorney general said. 
Officially described as a 'fugitive' at the hearing in Nassau's magistrates court, he was on Wednesday finally given clearance to leave the island chain.
He had left the courthouse more than four hours after the hearing. The disgraced financier was whisked first to jail because Fox Hill had to release him formally before he could leave the Bahamas, according to official sources.
Magistrate Shaka Serville agreed to the move after the man accused of defrauding investors out of $1.8billion in the catastrophic 
 collapse formally told him he wanted a route to the States.
Bankman-Fried is likely to appear before a U.S. federal court in Manhattan on Thursday. At his court appearance, known as an arraignment, he is expected to be asked to enter a plea. The U.S. judge would determine whether to grant him bail, and if so, on what conditions. 
Pictured: FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried is escorted from a Corrections Department van as he arrives at the Magistrates Court building for a hearing, in Nassau, Bahamas, Wednesday
The 30-year-old consented to extradition to the United States and was flown to New York overnight on Wednesday. Pictured: Fried is seen leaving court on Wednesday morning
US prosecutors last week charged Bankman-Fried with conspiracy, wire fraud, money laundering and election finance violations.
He 'was orchestrating a massive, years-long fraud, diverting billions of dollars of the trading platform's customer funds for his own personal benefit and to help grow his crypto empire,' they said.
Five of the eight counts against Bankman-Fried carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison each.
The SEC separately accused him of violating securities laws.         
US Attorney Williams said two key figures in the case - Alameda Research CEO Caroline Ellison and FTX co-founder Gary Wang - had pleaded guilty to charges related to the FTX collapse and that they were cooperating with authorities.
Their charges were 'in connection with their roles in the frauds that contributed to FTX's collapse,' he said, but did not provide further details.
Williams's office did not respond to an AFP request for comment on the charges.
Separately, the SEC and the Commodity Future Trading Commission (CFTC) announced Wednesday they had filed civil suits against Ellison and Wang and that the two were cooperating, which should lead to a more lenient judgment.
An attorney for Ellison did not respond immediately to request for comment.
FTX co-founder Sam Bankman-Fried is escorted out of the Magistrate's Court on December 21, 2022 in Nassau, Bahamas
Police prepare to transport FTX co-founder Sam Bankman-Fried, after he was placed in the SUV to the left, from the Magistrate's Court on December 21, 2022 in Nassau, Bahamas
'Gary has accepted responsibility for his actions and takes seriously his obligations as a cooperating witness,' Ilan Graff, a lawyer for Wang, said in a statement.
Ellison and Wang signed the plea deals on Monday, court records show, after Reuters and other outlets reported over the weekend that Bankman-Fried would waive his right to fight extradition.
The agreements call for Ellison and Wang to each post a$250,000 release bond, and states that prosecutors may call for a judge to take their cooperation into account at sentencing if they 'provided substantial assistance in an investigation or prosecution.'
The CFTC estimates that $8 billion in funds were misappropriated from FTX customer accounts.
After its founding in 2019, FTX rose spectacularly to become a leading player in the crypto world.
Bankman-Fried appeared on the covers of finance and tech magazines, and drew in huge investments from prominent fund managers and venture capitalists.
He was also lionized in the halls of politics, becoming a spokesman for the industry on regulatory issues in Washington, and contributing tens of millions of dollars to the Republicans and the Democrats.
But it all imploded dramatically in November when a media report said Alameda's balance sheet was heavily built on a token created by FTX with no independent value - and exposed Bankman-Fried's companies as being dangerously interlinked.
Bankman-Fried was arrested at his Nassau apartment on December 12 at the request of federal prosecutors in New York.
A Bahamas permanent resident, he spent the past nine days in prison, weighing his choices before telling the Nassau magistrate court Wednesday that he would not fight extradition.
Share or comment on this article: 
Two thirds say Sam Bankman-Fried should be convicted for crypto swindling, many view him unfavorably
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
