Anthony Albanese to reveal his priorities for 2023 and timeline for Indigenous Voice referendum | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Anthony Albanese confirms when referendum on the Indigenous Voice will be held as he lists his top priorities for 2023 in speech to music festival honouring Bob Hawke
Prime minister will speak at the Woodford Folk Festival near Brisbane today
Speech reflects on his first seven months in power and plans for the year ahead
Warns democracy is under threat around the world and we must stay vigilant
Confirms his timetable for Indigenous Voice referendum in second half of 2023 
Nic White For Daily Mail Australia
 03:21, 28 December 2022 
 03:26, 28 December 2022 
 will outline his vision for 2023 and warn democracy is under threat at a speech at a music festival today.
The prime minister will also confirm his timeline for a referendum on the Indigenous Voice to Parliament, to be held in the second half of next year.
Mr Albanese will speak about 3pm at the Woodford Folk Festival, just north of 
, in honour of former PM Bob Hawke, who died in 2019.
Anthony Albanese (pictured at the cricket on Tuesday) will outline his vision for 2023 and warn democracy is under threat at a speech at a music festival today
Honouring Mr Hawke, a big fan of the festival who frequently made speeches there, the prime minister will vow not to waste his time in office.
'Bob Hawke left a great a legacy, and that's because he understood that for any legacy to have staying power requires a government that lasts the distance,' he will say.
'The words that characterised his leadership - reconciliation, accord, consensus - were all about us heading in the same direction as a nation. 
'No one's time in government is infinite. The clock is always ticking.
'But I firmly believe that a good way to make the best possible use of that time is to carry Bob's example in your heart.'
Mr Albanese will speak in honour of former PM Bob Hawke, who died in 2019 (pictured at the 2017 festival)
Honouring Mr Hawke, a big fan of the festival who frequently made speeches there (like this one in 2015), the prime minister will vow not to waste his time in office
Mr Albanese will focus part of his speech on the Indigenous Voice, which he plans to legislate early in the new year and hold a referendum on by Christmas.
'When Woodford takes place next year, the referendum on the Voice to Parliament will have been held,' he will say.
'This is an opportunity for all of us to be a part of enriching our nation and being even stronger in the future.
'We live in the world's greatest nation, but an even greater Australia is so tantalisingly within our reach.' 
The PM will say the Voice would 'ensure consultation on matters that directly affect Indigenous Australians, such as education, health, housing, and justice issues'.
He will argue a successful referendum would remove 'the torment of our powerlessness' indigenous people felt.
'Momentum is growing. Local government, community groups, churches, business, trade unions, and sporting codes have joined every state and territory government in pledging support for a constitutionally enshrined Voice to parliament. This can be an inclusive moment of national unity and reconciliation,' he will say. 
Mr Albanese will speak about 3pm at the Woodford Folk Festival, just north of Brisbane
The festival is being held for the first time since 2019 after Covid cancellations
However, opposition to the Voice is also gearing up to convince Australians to vote no, and the National Party in November said it would not support it.
The Liberals are yet to decide whether they will support or oppose the Voice, or allow MPs to freely support either camp.
Mr Albanese will say he 'respects everyone's right to make their own decision on the referendum, but I encourage Australians to consider the generous and gracious request from First Nations people'.
The PM will recap the policy achievements of his busy first months in power since winning the May 21 election, as the first Labor PM since 2013.
His seven months included passing sweeping industrial relations laws, setting a 43 per cent renewable energy target, boosting the minimum wage, increasing paid parental leave, and cutting the cost of childcare. 
Another piece of legislation he passed, created the National Anti-Corruption Commission, will get special mention in his speech as he warns no country is safe from sliding into authoritarianism.
'We have established a National Anti-Corruption Commission because restoring integrity and trust to our politics is essential if we are to maintain the health of our democracy,' he will say.
'I urge anyone who thinks our democracy is unassailable to have a look around the world.
'Even some of the oldest, most stable democracies have come under attack from a whole range of corrosive, insidious forces. No one is immune.'
Mr Albanese will argue the NACC is a 'crucial step' in safeguarding Australian democracy.
'Our democracy is precious, something we have carefully grown and nurtured from one generation to the next. One of our core responsibilities is to make it stronger, and key to that strength is transparency and accountability,' he will say.
Mr Albanese will also tout his success at improving Australia's relations with China after former PM Scott Morrison's call for an inquiry into the origins of coronavirus sparked a two-year trade war.
'It doesn't mean we agree with China on everything. It doesn't mean we don't raise our concerns and our significant points of difference,' he will say.
'We will co-operate with China where we can, disagree where we must, and engage in Australia's national interest.'
Australian Foreign Minister Penny Wong shakes hands with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi at Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing, a big step in improving relations with China
Mr Albanese, in reflecting on his renewable energy target of 43 per cent by 2030, will call for Australia to become a green manufacturing powerhouse.
'There is a great future on the horizon, and it is so exciting. Australia can be a renewable energy superpower,' he will say.
'Along with all that solar and wind power to generate clean, cheap, reliable electricity, we have – with our great abundance of lithium – everything we need to build the batteries we need right here.' 
Finally, as a nod to the music fans he will speak to, Mr Albanese's speech promises more arts funding and condemns nine years of Coalition cuts to the sector.
"The arts are central to our culture and it is through the arts that we build our identity as a nation and a people,' he will say.
Share or comment on this article: 
Anthony Albanese to reveal his priorities for 2023 and timeline for Indigenous Voice referendum
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
