Try your hand at Britain's wittiest and most irreverent news quiz recapping major moments of 2022  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Who was Captain Crasheroonie Snoozefest? What did Becks do for 13 hours? And how was Rebekah Vardy left all at sea? Try your hand at Britain's wittiest and most irreverent news quiz recapping the major moments of 2022
Steve Bennett For The Mail On Sunday
 22:10, 31 December 2022 
 22:14, 31 December 2022 
1. Which of these was a nickname Boris gave to Sir 
2. Why is the number 57 relevant to Boris Johnson?
A lot happened in politics in 2022. Can you remember which nickname Boris Johnson gave to Sir Keir Starmer? Pictured: Then Prime Minister Boris Johnson (right) and Sir Keir Starmer (left) at the State Opening of Parliament in May 2022
What did Madame Tussauds do with Boris Johnson's waxwork as he lost his grip on power? Pictured: In 2020 Madame Tussauds gave Boris Johnson's waxwork a papoose after it was announced he and then fiancee Carrie Symonds were expecting a child
Europe rings in 2023! Party-goers in Paris and other cities...
Get your thinking caps on! From Liz Truss's tenure to the...
3. Lord Geidt quit which job, which sounds made-up, but isn’t?
4. The first half of the year was dominated by revelations of lockdown parties in Downing Street. What was it that revellers were revealed to have broken in the No 10 garden?
5. As Boris lost his grip on power, what did Madame Tussauds do with his waxwork?
6. What political Titan did Boris Johnson quote at the end of his last Prime Minister’s Questions in the Commons?
What political Titan did Boris Johnson quote at the end of his last Prime Minister’s Questions in the Commons? Pictured: Boris Johnson at his final PMQs in July 2022
7. What did TV presenter Kate McCann do while hosting a Tory leadership debate?
8. Why was Rishi Sunak mocked when he tried to show himself being a normal man of the people at a petrol station?
9. What was the name of the Tory Deputy Chief Whip who resigned after allegedly groping two men while drunk?
What did Nadine Dorries not do this year? Pictured: Ms Dorries arrives at 10 Downing Street in September 2021
12. What reason did Matt Hancock give for going into the I’m A Celebrity… jungle? Pictured: Matt Hancock takes part in his final Bushtucker Trial in Australia in November 2022
10. What did MP Neil Parish claim he was searching for when accused of viewing porn on his phone in the Commons chamber?
11. What did Nadine Dorries not do this year?
12. What reason did Matt Hancock give for going into the I’m A Celebrity… jungle?
13. What was wrong with some of the Platinum Jubilee merchandise made in China?
14. The Queen was reported to be a fan of which video game?
14. The Queen was reported to be a fan of which video game? Pictured: the late Queen Elizabeth II at Sandringham in February 2022
15. What was written as ‘occupation’ on the Queen’s death certificate?
16. What was the official reason given for Prince Andrew’s absence from Platinum Jubilee celebrations?
17. Which of these was not done as a mark of respect for the Queen following her death?
What was the official reason given for Prince Andrew’s absence from Platinum Jubilee celebrations? Pictured: Prince Andrew in Windsor in May 2017
18. Harry &amp; Meghan’s Netflix documentary showed a picture of a large group of photographers to back their claims of media harassment. But what were the cameramen actually gathered to take pictures of?
19. The price of what precious substance reached almost £10 a kilo?
20. How did energy firm Ovo suggest people keep warm as bills soared?
21. How did Donald Trump suggest the US military could hit back against Russia without getting the blame?
Silvio Berlusconi was one of the few people who spoke in favour of Vladimir Putin (pictured). What did the former Italian prime minister give the Russian leader for his 65th birthday?
What was US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s contribution to the war? Pictured: Pelosi in the U.S. Capitol in 2019
How did Donald Trump (pictured) suggest the US military could hit back against Russia without getting the blame? 
22. What was US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s contribution to the war?
23. Silvio Berlusconi was one of the few people who spoke in favour of Vladimir Putin. What did the former Italian prime minister give the Russian leader for his 65th birthday?
24. What was the name of the social-media platform launched by Donald Trump after he was thrown off Twitter?
25. What was Trump doing in a genuine image he flogged of himself as a virtual trading card to his supporters?
26. The UN declared 2022 the international year of… what?
27. Amateur TV host Jerry Dyer became a sensation for livestreaming… what?
28. What bane of rail travellers’ lives did Transport Secretary Grant Shapps vow to get rid of?
What bane of rail travellers’ lives did Transport Secretary Grant Shapps vow to get rid of? Pictured: Sadiq Khan, Grant Shapps, and Boris Johnson on the Elizabeth Line in May 2022
29. What nickname was given to July’s lost-baggage debacle at Heathrow?
30. A 69-year-old plumber won £25,000 for age discrimination after his colleagues called him… what?
31. How is academic Steven Hunt trying to keep Latin alive?
32. Why did the World Bollard Association say it had ‘never been so offended’?
Listening station GCHQ publicly clashed with MI6 chief Richard Moore over… what? Pictured: Moore in London in November 2021
What nickname was given to July’s lost-baggage debacle at Heathrow? Pictured: Left luggage at baggage reclaim at Heathrow Airport in July
33. Listening station GCHQ publicly clashed with MI6 chief Richard Moore over… what?
34. What was the name given to one of the beavers reintroduced to Enfield in North London?
35. Which of these pieces of investigations did not win a 2022 Ig Nobel prize for quirky research?
36. What did Storm Eunice do?
37. How did Trentham Monkey Sanctuary in Stoke try to get its primates in the mood for sex?
38. Which of these was not a real trigger warning from 2022?
What did Pulp Fiction director Quentin Tarantino call ‘the greatest British import of this decade’ into the US? Pictured: Tarantino in New York City in November 2021
39. What was the actual name of the woefully under-attended so-called ‘festival of Brexit’?
40. What did Pulp Fiction director Quentin Tarantino call ‘the greatest British import of this decade’ into the US?
41. What did it take David Beckham 13 hours to do?
42. What turn of phrase did Rebekah Vardy not understand during her disastrous libel trial against Coleen Rooney?
What did Danny Dyer say about the King and Queen Consort when they visited the EastEnders set, before ascending the throne? Pictured: Camilla, at the time the Princess of Wales, visited the Eastenders set in March 2022
What turn of phrase did Rebekah Vardy not understand during her disastrous libel trial against Coleen Rooney? Pictured: Vardy enters the Royal Courts of Justice in May 2022
43. What did Danny Dyer say about the King and Queen Consort when they visited the EastEnders set, before ascending the throne?
44. How did broadcaster Jeremy Vine injure himself?
45. In his bizarre speech asking people to shut up about Qatar’s dismal human rights record, Fifa President Gianni Infantino said he knew what it was like to be discriminated against because he was…
46. Which of these did Qatari authorities not ban during the World Cup?
47. Which sporting record did Kellie Clark beat in 2022?
48. Cricket lost the great Shane Warne in 2022. How did Liz Hurley once describe dating him?
n his bizarre speech asking people to shut up about Qatar’s dismal human rights record, what was the reason Fifa President Gianni Infantino gave as to why he knew what it was like to be discriminated against? Pictured: Infantino and Messi after the World Cup Final in Qatar, December 18
Cricket lost the great Shane Warne in 2022. How did Liz Hurley once describe dating him? Pictured: Liz Hurley and Shane Warne at Ascot in 2013
49. Of what did golfer Greg Norman, below, say ‘we all make mistakes’?
50. How did one chess robot ensure he would not be defeated by his seven-year-old opponent?
1d, 2c, 3b, 4a, 5b, 6d, 7a, 8a, 9b, 10c, 11d, 12b, 13b, 14c, 15b, 16a, 17d, 18b. 19d. 20a, 21c. 22c, 23b, 24b, 25c, 26a. 27a. 28a, 29a, 30b, 31c, 32a, 33d, 34a, 35d, 36a, 37d, 38d, 39c, 40a, 41b, 42c, 43b, 44b, 45b, 46d, 47c, 48b, 49b, 50a.
40-50: Excellent work. You’ve worked hard to secure your place at the top of the heap. Or you’re Phillip Schofield or Holly Willoughby and have sneaked your way here somehow.
27-39: Not bad. You must have absorbed a lot of news media over the year… which is surely more Amol Rajan than anyone can bear.
14-26: You don’t know much about anything, but you’re happy to have an opinion about it. You must do well on Twitter.
13 or under: You have no concept of anything going on at all. You must have served in Liz Truss’s Cabinet.
Share or comment on this article: 
Try your hand at Britain's wittiest and most irreverent news quiz recapping major moments of 2022 
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
