Jerome Powell slaps colleagues who seek to tackle climate change | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Jerome Powell warns Federal Reserve should NOT tackle climate change and social issues as he slaps down woke colleagues
Powell called on the Fed to 'resist the temptation' to tackle climate change 
He believes doing so 'would undermine the case for our independence' 
The Fed's independence from politics is central to its ability to battle inflation 
A Biden nominee to the Fed withdrew over belief it should penalize polluters
 01:08, 11 January 2023 
 15:23, 11 January 2023 
 Chair Jerome Powell cautioned that institutions like the Fed must 'resist the temptation' to try and tackle social issues such as 
 in a speech in 
Powell, 69, gave his remarks to a forum on central bank independence sponsored by the Swedish central bank.
The Federal Reserve's independence from political influence is central to its ability to battle 
, but requires it stay out of issues like climate change that are beyond its congressionally established mandate.
'Taking on new goals, however worthy,' such as climate or social policy, he said, 'without a clear statutory mandate would undermine the case for our independence.'
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell cautioned that institutions like the Fed must 'resist the temptation' to try and tackle social issues such as climate change in a speech in Sweden Tuesday
Notoriously, in 2022, President Joe Biden had Sarah Bloom Raskin, one of his nominees to the Fed's Board of Governors, withdrew after failing to gain enough support. 
Raskin generated strong opposition from the outset from Republicans who said she would use the post to steer the Fed toward oversight policies that would penalize banks who lend to fossil fuel companies. 
Sarah Bloom Raskin WITHDRAWS her nomination as Biden's pick...
Biden's woke Federal Reserve nominees: Economist married to...
Though Powell said the Fed's regulatory powers give it a 'narrow' role to ensure financial institutions 'appropriately manage' the risks they face from climate change, 'we are not, and will not be, a 'climate policymaker.''
'Without explicit congressional legislation, it would be inappropriate for us to use our monetary policy or supervisory tools to promote a greener economy or to achieve other climate-based goals,' Powell said. 
'Decisions about policies to directly address climate change should be made by the elected branches of government and thus reflect the public's will as expressed through elections,' he told the forum in Stockholm.
Powell's comments, particularly about climate change, are not new.
But the restatement came in sharp terms as his first public remarks since the U.S. Republican Party installed one of its members as Speaker of the House of Representatives, and began selecting new chairs for the committees that oversee federal government operations including the Fed.
Though Powell said the Fed's regulatory powers give it a 'narrow' role to ensure financial institutions 'appropriately manage' the risks they face from climate change, 'we are not, and will not be, a 'climate policymaker''
'Without explicit congressional legislation, it would be inappropriate for us to use our monetary policy or supervisory tools to promote a greener economy or to achieve other climate-based goals,' Powell said
Notoriously, in 2022, President Joe Biden had Sarah Bloom Raskin, one of his nominees to the Fed's Board of Governors, withdrew after failing to gain enough support
Powell, now in his fifth year as Fed chair, has put a high priority on building strong relationships with elected officials from both major U.S. parties, but faced criticism from some Republicans for, in their view, allowing the Fed to wander from its core responsibilities into areas like climate change and the economics of race.
While Powell's view of the Fed's role stands in contrast to major central banks in Europe that have integrated green economy efforts into their policymaking, it recognizes the more divided politics in the United States.
Powell appeared to nod to that in his comments in Stockholm.
To maintain authority over its core mission of managing inflation and demand, 'we need to deserve it, and that means stick to that work and don't look for broader things,' Powell said. 'We shouldn't be getting ahead of where the public is if there´s no specific mandate. In the case of the U.S. that's a particularly salient point.'
There's even disagreement within the Fed over the appropriate stance on climate risks.
Powell, now in his fifth year as Fed chair, has put a high priority on building strong relationships with elected officials from both major U.S. parties
While Powell's view of the Fed's role stands in contrast to major central banks in Europe that have integrated green economy efforts into their policymaking, it recognizes the more divided politics in the United States
When the Fed recently asked for public comment about 'a high-level framework for the safe and sound management of exposures to climate-related financial risks,' Fed Governor Christopher Waller said he did not support issuing guidance on the issue because while 'climate change is real... I disagree with the premise that it poses a serious risk' to financial stability.
 led by Florida Rep. Byron Donalds are launching a fresh attack on the growing use of environmental, social and governance (ESG) principles by federal agencies as they spend taxpayers' money.
On Wednesday, he is introducing legislation that would prevent federal agencies from requiring contract applicants to disclose the amount of greenhouse gases they emit.
It is part of a push to prevent federal agencies promoting green energy or 'woke causes' in the same way that 
 are basing decisions on ESG principles.
 and the General Service Administration announced a new rule requiring contractors to release emissions data and set emissions targets.
Republicans led by Florida Rep. Byron Donalds are launching a fresh attack on the growing use of environmental, social and governance (ESG) principles by federal agencies 
The ESG movement, and BlackRock's involvement, has recently become a rallying cry for Republicans on Capitol Hill, who are pushing for legislation to protect retirement and investment accounts from asset managers who prioritize ESG. 
Republicans are ramping up their bid to challenge the Biden administration's policy to allow employers to consider green and social investments in 401ks.
 members of both the House and 
 are bringing forward legislation to protect retirement and investment accounts.
, and a recent study has shown 78 percent of funds are
Tech firms these funds tend to support have had to lay off employees while oil and gas companies they tend to shun have seen their profits soar.
Ron DeSantis has led the charge by last week pulling $2billion worth of its assets from BlackRock. 
The state's Chief Financial Officer Jimmy Patronis said: 'Using our cash... to fund BlackRock's social-engineering project isn't something Florida ever signed up for. It's got nothing to do with maximizing returns, and is the opposite of what an asset manager is paid to do.'
Ten states have also done similar by withdrawing funds from the asset management giant. 
WHAT IS 'ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE' (ESG) CRITERIA?
Companies can obtain an 'ESG' label when they invest in causes seen as benefiting the environment or fulfilling a social good.
Often, corporate investors like BlackRock - the largest asset manager in the world - give money specifically to ESG causes, which often results in more funding as they are seen as fulfilling a social good.
But these companies often decide for themselves what counts as socially beneficial -  A Bloomberg 
 in 2021 found that many companies just said whatever padded out their bottom line was in their eyes 'ESG'.
Since investors have trouble agreeing on the definition, political entities such as the EU try to decide for them - providing a list of sectors they view as socially beneficial. This is called the 'EU Taxonomy'. 
In 2020, a record amount of cash flooded into 'ESG funds'.
But a company's record on climate change often had little impact on how it preformed in an ESG index - a list that supposedly rates companies in terms of how much social good they bring about.
On April 23, the MSCI - the largest ESG index of company stock - gave McDonald's a ratings upgrade, citing the company's environmental practices.
But McDonald's only achieved this after the index dropped any carbon emissions from its rating criteria.
McDonalds then got an even better rating for installing recycling bins in the UK and France - countries where it gets fined if it doesn't install recycling bins.
The MSCI index uses terms like 'water stress' as an environmental positive - but this is in fact measured by whether the local community has enough water for the company, not whether the company is stressing the water supply of the community. 
The size of such ESG investment indexes has risen to billion of US dollars in recent years.
Italian aerospace and defense group Leonardo called on the EU last year to label the defense sector as sustainable rather than socially harmful.
Share or comment on this article: 
Jerome Powell slaps colleagues who seek to tackle climate change
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
