Trans activist behind banned Antifa Twitter account says she is 'proud' of her calls to violence | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Unashamed trans activist behind banned Antifa Twitter account says she is 'proud' of her demands for violence - and calls for others to set up radical left wing groups
Heidi Beedle, a transgender activist turned journalist, called for violence against her political adversaries on Twitter Wednesday 
Just days prior, an antifa account that she founded but claims to no longer run, was banned for its multiple calls for violence
Beedle, a military vet and former teacher, previously wrote about her time as an educator
 20:55, 22 December 2022 
 21:34, 22 December 2022 
 who previously ran the 
 account, has called for violence against those who disagree with her far-left viewpoints.
The Post Millennial reporter Andy Ngo recently identified Beedle, 38, as the individual behind the Colorado Springs Antifa account, which frequently promoted violence and was 
This week, from her personal account, Beedle publicly called for violence once again.
On December 19, Beedle wrote, 'Do I support violence? Yes. F*** 'em. Remember Unite the Right? This year's Idaho Pride? Club Q?
Countless examples show these people can and will harm marginalized people, and the cops and the system aren't going to stop them.'
Beedle posted the message above a picture of rallygoers at the infamous Charlottesville Unit the Right rally that occurred during the summer of 2017.
Heidi Beedle, 38, poses defiantly against an antifa flag as she wrote she would have to killed before she 'shut up' about her radical politics and societal goals
After the Colorado Springs antifa Twitter account was unbanned, Beedle posted the above message calling for violence against her political adversaries
Following Ngo's purported unmasking, Beedle claimed that she 'ceased having anything' to do with the Colorado Springs Antifa Twitter account, but called a tweet from them that called for violence a 'banger.'
On December 20, Beedle wrote, 'Ngo's followers, and a bunch of conservatives, are freaking about the fact that I was 'antifa' and are uncritically accepting Ngo's claims that I am behind twitter posts made by COS Antifa long after I ceased having anything to do with it.
'Those posts are bangers tho, for real,' Beedle wrote above an image of a Tweet that read: 'A nationwide recall has been issued on all transphobe's teeth.
'It's up to each and every one of us to help out where we can.'
EXCLUSIVE: Arrested Antifa 'terrorist', 22, is son of...
REVEALED: Left-wing activist who founded banned Colorado...
To close out her recent thread, Beedle posted a picture of herself against an antifa flag and wrote: 'If they want me to shut up they will have to kill me. Support your local antifa, your local alt-news source, and your local LGBTQ youth center. All you fascists are bound to lose.'
Beedle, who used to be a teacher, is currently a reporter the the Colorado Times Recorder, an alternative newspaper.
In response to its employee's public promotion of violence, the paper tweeted its support of its colleague.
'We stand behind Heidi Beedle's record of excellent journalism here at the Colorado Times Recorder and elsewhere.
'We are proud to have her as a colleague and friend,' tweeted the outlet's official account.
The fringe Unite the Right, which occurred in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 11-12 of 2017, was a major call-to-arms moment for antifa activists across the country
Heidi Beedle, a transgender journalist, previously spent eight years in the US Army and time as a teacher before transitioning and become an activist and then reporter
The Post Millennial journalist Andy Ngo uncovered Beedle's old blogs, in which the former teacher wrote about indoctrinating young students with radical political ideology 
Beedle previously admitted to founding the Colorado Springs Anti-Fascists profile and blog, which allegedly delivered instructions to fellow believers to assault others.
She previously told the DailyMail.com that she has not had access to any of the accounts since early 2019 at the latest.
As a teacher, Beedle bragged about indoctrinating her young students with her radical political ideology. In a 2016 blog post, she revealed that a parent complained about her constant 'comparisons of Trump to Hitler.'
In another post, she wrote that she loaned a student a copy of a book with 'kinky sex scenes' and 'a lot of drug stuff' in it.
In a 2021 podcast interview, Beedle spoke about how she joined the anti-fascist movement.
Prior to transitioning, Beedle says she spent eight years in the Army and rose to the rank of sergeant.
She said came out as trans 'about halfway through my education career,' which 'exposed me to a lot of different types of activist.
'While I was teaching I kind of got more and more into anti-fascist activism,' she said, adding that 'you could call me Antifa.'
'Really I just was kind of a nerd, I did a bunch of research, and contributed to a blog and, you know, exposed white supremacists, dudes from extremist groups like the Proud Boys,' she said.
'I did that for a couple of years and then, you know, I just, between activism and teaching and life, I just kind of got burnt out on everything and kind of quit and walked away from that whole scene.'
BREAKING: Colorado Springs Antifa cell notorious for promoting violence suspended from Twitter | The Post Millennial | thepostmillennial.com
Share or comment on this article: 
Trans activist behind banned Antifa Twitter account says she is 'proud' of her calls to violence
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
