Lasers reveal 650-square-mile ancient Mayan city hidden beneath Guatemala rainforest | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rolf Harris dead at 93: Paedophile TV host and musician who became one of Britain's biggest stars and rubbed shoulders with royalty before he was jailed for child sex crimes in 2014 'is killed by neck cancer'
Pictured: Two teenage boys who died in e-scooter tragedy that sparked Cardiff riots - as residents survey 'warzone' aftermath and force hits back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Is the axe hanging over Suella Braverman? Rishi Sunak gathers Cabinet as he mulls Home Secretary's fate with 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Prince Harry loses latest legal challenge against Home Office after it refused to let him pay for Met Police to act as his personal security because its officers 'are not guns for hire'
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Wife whose husband always flies first class but makes  her and their children sit in economy asks if she should divorce him
From beloved entertainer with royal honours, to convicted paedophile living as a recluse before his death: Rolf Harris's stunning fall from grace
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey says a woman can 'quite clearly' have a penis as he is asked about trans rights in radio phone in
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
Succession fans go wild after Brian Cox's real wife Nicole Ansari-Cox makes a surprise cameo at Logan Roy's funeral - did YOU spot it?
Row over Blur singer Damon Albarn's 'intrusive' eco-friendly heat pumps outside his Devon farmhouse as frontman installs a second box near public footpath 'before being granted planning permission'
Here comes the bride! Queen Rania of Jordan makes an emotional tribute to her future daughter-in-law at  celebration ahead of her wedding to Crown Prince Hussein next week
SATs marking is delayed for a week amid 'chaos' as technical glitches see teachers unable to access online assessment portal - with some now having to work over half term break
Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
Moscow running scared: Kremlin evacuates nine border villages and admits there is 'cause for serious concern' as pro-Ukraine fighters capture territory within Russia's Belgorod region
Ukraine carried out Nord Stream pipe blast, German police suspect - despite suspicious Russian naval activity in the area
Brit accused of murdering his terminally-ill wife in Cyprus 'always did everything he could to help her' and 'her great wish was not to go to hospital', their neighbours tell trial
The best places to stay in the world: Scarborough B&B is named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
Lasers reveal 650-square-mile ancient Mayan city hidden beneath Guatemala rainforest
A massive Mayan site has been discovered underneath a rainforest
The 650 square mile site was found in the Mirador-Calakmul Karst Basin region
Lidar technology was used to conduct the aerial survey used by researchers 
 21:25, 12 January 2023 
 21:27, 12 January 2023 
Geologists in northern Guatemala have discovered a huge 2,000-year-old Mayan site that dates to the Middle and Late Preclassic period below a rainforest.
The discovered area covers 650 square miles across the Mirador-Calakmul Karst Basin region and surrounded nearly 1,000 urban settlements interconnected by 160km (100 miles) of causeways that the Maya likely traversed on foot.
Along with their findings, the researchers also came across remains of several large platforms and pyramids, along with canals and reservoirs used for water collection, according to the research published recently in the
Geologists in northern Guatemala have discovered a huge 2,000-year-old Mayan site
The discovered area covers 650 square miles across the Mirador-Calakmul Karst Basin region and surrounded nearly 1,000 urban settlements
Dancing woman who sparked fury for climbing over ancient...
Americans busted in Guatemala for smuggling 166 ancient...
The findings came from an aerial survey that researchers, including those from Universidad de San Carlos in Guatemala, conducted via airplane using light detection and ranging.
Using this method, lasers are beamed out and the reflected light is used to create an aerial image of a landscape. 
This mode of Lidar technology is becoming more popular in its use in researching dense tropical rain forests.
The findings came from an aerial survey that researcher conducted via airplane using light detection and ranging
Pictured: Study co-author Carlos Morales-Aguilar, a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Geography and the Environment at the University of Texas at Austin
Scientists wrote in the journal: 'This study uses airborne Lidar data to demonstrate how complex societies organised their infrastructure to reflect their socio-economic organisation and political power'.
Although past studies may have proposed that 
early Mesoamerican settlements were likely sparsely populated, the research found that these settlements were densely packed.
The Lidar technology also detected that some of the newly discovered 
settlements may have had ball courts - these would have been used by ancient people to play native sports.
Additionally, there is a possibility that certain areas might have once =served as hubs for politics, work and recreation.
Using the Lidar method, lasers are beamed out and the reflected light is used to create an aerial image of a landscape
The research, with the use of lasers, was initially inspired by the area's high concentration of Mayan cities following their previous successes in Belize and Cambodia.
The Lidar lasers were successful in helping to identify 
775 ancient settlements in the Mirador-Calakmul Karst Basin itself - 189 additional settlements appeared around its Karstic ridges.
Out of the 964, 645 were unnamed, however, before naming these areas, researchers must work out how they fit together by first delineating towns, villages, and cities.
LiDAR analyses in the contiguous Mirador-Calakmul Karst Basin, Guatemala: an introduction to new perspectives on regional early Maya socioeconomic and political organization | Ancient Mesoamerica | Cambridge Core
Share or comment on this article: 
Lasers reveal 650-square-mile ancient Mayan city hidden beneath Guatemala rainforest
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
