As Ke Huy Quan scoops a Golden Globe - Where are The Goonies stars now? | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Where are The Goonies stars now? As 'Data' Ke Huy Quan's scoops a Golden Globe... what co-stars Sean Astin, Josh Brolin, Corey Feldman and the gang got up to after the 1980s blockbuster
 13:26, 15 January 2023 
 21:03, 15 January 2023 
 was a face known to millions across the globe after starring in two huge movies as a child actor in the 1980s... before slipping from the limelight.
The Vietnamese-American actor played the James Bond-loving tech geek 'Data' in the 1985 blockbuster The Goonies, alongside co-stars Sean Astin, 
But his star was already on the rise after playing 
 Jones' sidekick Short Round in the 
 classic the Temple of Doom in 1984. 
The 51-year-old, who starred in only six movies after the Goonies, has just picked up a Golden Globe for his supporting role in the absurdist multi-verse movie Everything Everywhere All At once. 
So where have the stars of The Goonies squad ended up today?
The Goonies: Mouth, Mikey, Data, and Chunk 
Goonies Reunited: Sean Astin (Mikey), Ke Huy Quan (Data) and Jeff Coen (Chunk)
Appearing on Reunited Apart with Josh Gad: Sean Astin, Josh Brolin, Kerri Green, Jeff Cohen, Corey Feldman, Martha Plimpton, and Ke Huy Quan show up to talk with Gad, so did the Fratelli brothers, Robert Davi and Joe Pantoliano, along with writer Chris Columbus, director Richard Donner, singer Cyndi Lauper, and even Steven Spielberg
Harrison Ford says it was 'great' to reunite with Indiana...
Josh Brolin, 54, gets a massive tattoo of an animal skull...
Corey Feldman steps out in LA with wife Courtney and son...
Jennifer Lawrence beams as she presents best feature to...
Quan, 51, starred in last year's critically acclaimed sci-fi comedy Everything Everywhere All at Once as Waymond Wang, the meek and long-suffering husband of Michelle Yeoh's Evelyn Quan Wang.
He only appeared in six films between The Goonies before giving up acting in 2001.
But he rekindled his acting career after appearing in Finding ʻOhana in 2021, which was based on The Goonies.
Ke Huy Quan, now 51, played 'Data' (left) in The Goonies has made a triumphant return to acting after focusing on production and stunt coordination. He starred in last year's critically acclaimed sci-fi comedy Everything Everywhere All at Once as Waymond Wang (right)
Comeback: Nearly 40 years after his first screen role as Short Round in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, Ke Huy Quan has won his first Golden Globe for his comeback performance in Everything Everywhere All At Once
Brendan Gleeson (The Banshees of Inisherin), 
Barry Keoghan (The Banshees of Inisherin), 
Eddie Redmayne (The Good Nurse) for the award.
The actor took to the stage and started kissing the award before starting into his speech.
I was raised to never forget where I came from, and to always remember who gave me my first opportunity. I am so happy to see Steven Spielberg here tonight. Steven, thank you!' he said, as they cut to Temple of Doom director Spielberg who blew kisses towards the actor.
'For so many years, I was afraid I had nothing more to offer. No matter what I did, I would never surpass what I achieved as a kid,' he continued while getting emotional. 
'Thankfully more than 30 years later, two guys thought of me. They remembered that kid, and they gave me an opportunity to try again,' Quan added while getting choked up, referring to Everything Everywhere All At Once directors Dan Kwan and Daniel Scheinert.
 Ke Huy Quan in a scene from Everything Everywhere All at Once
Harrison Ford and Ke Huy Quan nearly broke the internet when they reunited last year nearly four decades after starring in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom together
'When I started my career as a child actor in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, I felt so very lucky to have been chosen. As I grew older, I started to wonder if that was it, if that was just luck,' Quan added.
Quan also won the National Society of Film Critics (NSFC) award for best supporting actor in the film 
And Temple of Doom co-star Harrison Ford, 80, was very happy for his former sidekick, saying in December: 
Ford explained: 'I've had the opportunity to see the film. He is really terrific in his movie. And I'm so glad to see him … and what he has become.
'I'm happy for him. He's such a happy guy, too. And well deserved!'
Quan decided to head back into acting after watching Michelle Yeoh in 2018 comedy Crazy Rich Asians. He said said after watching the film he called an agent and was on their books.
He got a call about the project from directors Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert - known as 'The Daniels' - starring Michelle Yeoh and he was ecstatic and said, 'oh my God! I mean, Michelle is the reason why I'm even thinking about getting back into acting in the first place,' according to 
Quan is due to appear alongside Michelle Yeoh later this year in upcoming action comedy Disney+ series American Born Chinese, which is based on a 2007 graphic novel of the same name.
Quan is married to wife Corinna Ke Quan, but little information has been shared publicly about their relationship.
The actor said his wife was not happy when he brought a fanny pack home to prepare for the iconic Everything Everywhere martial arts sequence where he takes out security guards with the bag.
'I ended up breaking a lot of things in the house, and my wife wasn't too happy about that. Can you imagine?' he told 
Sean Astin (pictured right at the 2023 FAN EXPO in New Orleans on January 8), now 51, played Goonies leader Mikey (left) and went on to have a thriving film career
The leader of The Goonies, Mikey Walsh, was played by Sean Astin, who was just 14 at the time.
Astin, now 51, is now most well known for his career-defining role as hobbit Samwise Gamgee in the Lord of the Rings trilogy which was released from 2001 to 2003.
But nearly a decade before Peter Jackson's Tolkien adaptation, Astin starred as Dave in critically panned comedy California Man (known as Encino man out of the UK) alongside Brendan Fraser's 'Link' - a caveman that Astin's character found frozen in his garden.
He married Christine Harrell in 1992 and the couple have three children together: Alexandra, Elizabeth and Isabella.
His oldest daughter Alexandra had a cameo role in The Return of the King as Sam's daughter in the films epilogue after peace returned to Middle Earth.
Sean Astin appeared as brave hobbit Samwise Gamgee (pictured) in Peter Jackson's acclaimed Lord of the Rings film trilogy
Astin starred as Dave (right) in critically panned 1992 comedy California Man (known as Encino man out of the UK) alongside Brendan Fraser's 'Link' (left) - a caveman that Astin's character found frozen in his garden.
Astin as Bob Newby (left) alongside Winona Ryder as Joyce Byers in Stranger Things
The actor completed the gruelling Ironman challenge - a 140 mile triathlon - in 2015 in Kona, Hawaii in 2015. He said at the time: 'I became an Ironman at the Championship in Kona and all I got were these stupid blisters.' 
Astin's acting career has remained active, appearing in numerous films and TV series - and one of his biggest roles in recent years was in the second series of Netflix sci-fi Stranger Things as Bob Newby - boyfriend of Winona Ryder's Joyce Byers.
He also guest starred as himself in an episode of 2021 episode of Scooby-Doo and Guess Who? - where Scoob, Shaggy, Fred, Velma and Daphne are assisted by a celebrities each week. The episode was titled Returning of the Key Ring! in reference to Astin's role in The Lord of the Rings.
In American politics, Astin has publically supported the Democrats, showing his support for Joe Biden in the 2020 presidential election against Donald Trump.
Appearing in the film as the Brandon 'Brand' Walsh, Mikey's older and athletic brother who acted as the 'muscle' during the group's adventure.
Brolin, now 54, has had an incredibly successful acting career since The Goonies, starring in acclaimed films including including No Country for Old Men and American Gangster.
But to today's younger audience Brolin will be best known as Marvel's biggest bad - the purple mad Titan Thanos, after he first briefly appeared in the role (through motion capture and CGI) in 2014's Guardians of the Galaxy - before ultimately snapping away half of life in the university in 2018's Avengers: Infinity War.
Josh Brolin played Mikey's athletic older brother Brand (left) and recently portrayed Gurney Halleck (right) in 2021's Dune
Brolin donned a mo-cap suit for his role as the mad Titan Thanos (pictured) in Marvel's Avengers films
Fortunately the team of superheroes managed to defeat the supervillain in its sequel Endgame. 
He also appeared 2018's Deadpool 2 alongside Ryan Reynolds as time-travelling warrior Cable and in the new Dune film as Gurney Halleck.
Brolin has been married three times: to Alice Adair from 1988 to 1994, Diane Lane from 2004 to 2013 and to Kathryn Boyd since 2016.
He has four children including his daughter Eden, who is also an actor.
Corey Feldman (right at the premiere of 'NOPE' in July last year), now 51, played the sarcastic 'Mouth' (left) in The Goonies 
Corey Feldman, who is now 51, played 'Mouth' the motor-mouthed sarcastic member of the Goonies who is constantly told to 'shut up' by his friends because of his bad jokes.
And after Feldman's appearance in the film, he got big roles in more classic 80s coming-of-age films Stand By Me and The Lost Boys in 1986 and 1987, respectively.
Feldman also appeared alongside Tom Hanks in 1989 black comedy film The 'Burbs.
He played teenager Ricky Butler, the neighbour of Hanks' character Ray Peterson.
Corey Feldman as Edgar Frog in 1987 horror The Lost Boys 
Feldman appeared alongside Tom Hanks in 1989 black comedy The 'Burbs
In the last decade, Feldman has made claims the he and his late friend Corey Haim, who died in 2010 of pneumonia after a battle with drug addiction, were sexually abused by people in the entertainment business as children.
As a teenager Feldman was also was a close friend of Michael Jackson who, since his death, has been accused of sexually abusing young boys.
The Goonies star defended Jackson over these allegations, saying that the popstar never assaulted him when he was at his home for sleepovers as child.
Corey Feldman, 47, told CNN in 2019 that 'he can not defend Michael Jackson after he has been accused of horrendous things' following the Leaving Neverland documentary
However, he acknowledged he is not here to judge his late friend because while he was a sexual abuse survivor himself, he said Jackson did not ever do those things to him 
He said at the time: 'I can not in good consciousness defend anyone who’s being accused of such horrendous things.
'But at the same time, I'm also not here to judge him, because again, he did not do those things to me and that was not my experience.'
In 2020 Feldman released a documentary about his and his close friend Corey Haim's experience of growing up being abused in the film industry called My Truth: The Rape of 2 Coreys.
Feldman has married three times since 1989, and most recently to Courtney Anne Mitchell in 2016, to whom he is still married. He has a son, Zen, with is second wife model Susie Sprague. 
Corey Haim (left) and Corey Feldman (right) in the 1987 film The Lost Boys
But he has said he wants to stay sober because of his son, Zen. 'There’s nothing in this world that would ever make me do cocaine or heroin or any of that stuff ever again,' he said in 2016.
'That’s where my love is and where my heart is,' he told them of Zen - whom he shares with ex-wife Susie. 
Feldman's recent credits include voicing Slash in the 2012-2017 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles animated series, which also starred fellow Goonie Sean Astin as Raphael.
He also released four albums since 1992, most recently Love Left 2: Arm Me With Love in 2021.
Jeff Cohen (right), now 48, played Chunk (left performing the 'truffle shuffle) in The Goonies
Lawrence Cohen, known to his fellow Goonies as 'Chunk' and dancer of the 'truffle shuffle', was the prankster of the gang - who called the town sheriff with ridiculous stories as a practical joke.
But actor Jeff Cohen, now 48, who portrayed him clearly did not want to follow in his character's footsteps as, after a few more roles, he gave acting up in the 90s and went on to become a media lawyer in Los Angeles, founding his own firm in 2002.
His biography on his law firm Cohen Gardner LLP reads: 'Jeff has a unique background growing up as a child actor in the entertainment industry.
'His most notable role was playing 'Chunk' in the cult Richard Donner/Steven Spielberg film The Goonies.
Although maybe he is worried clients are not fans of the films (or Chunk) as: 'He asks that you don't hold that against him.'
Martha Plimpton (right), now 52 played 'punky nerd' Stef (left) in The Goonies
Martha Plimpton, 52, played Goonie Stephanie 'Stef' Steinbrenner - who the actress described as a 'punky nerd'.
She dated actor River Phoenix in 1986 while starring in The Mosquito Coast together.
But due to Phoenix's drug abuse their relationship ended in 1989, although they remained friends until his tragic death in 1993 after a cocaine and heroin overdose.
Plimpton has appeared on the West End, appearing as Tracey in Sweat in 2019
She continued acting after The Goonies and has notably appeared in popular TV shows The Good Wife, Younger and The Real O'Neals.
Plimpton has also appeared on the West End playing Tracey in Sweat in 2019. She is currently performing at theatre @sohospace in production of Shakespeare's As You Like it as Jaques until the end of January.
And in 2019 she voiced Yelena in Disney princess sequel Frozen II.
Plimpton is also a campaigner for abortion rights, lobbying the American congress for Planned Parenthood -and is on the board of campaign group 'A Is For'.
John Matuszak: The American footballer who played Sloth in The Goonies passed away in 1989
 John Matuszak in an American Football uniform with Mr. T as The A Team's B.A. Baracus 
The disfigured and outcasted member of the Fratellis, 'Sloth', was played by the late John Matuszak.
Before appearing on The Goonies, John Matuszak was a towering American football star at six feet and eight inches tall.
He played for the Oakland/Los Angeles Raiders from 1976 to 1982, when he retired after an injury and began acting.
Matuszak was known for his 'bad boy' lifestyle. In his autobiography he stated he used drugs and abused alcohol while playing in the NFL. 
He sadly died not long after the film was released and passed away in 1989 aged 38 of a drug overdose.
Kerri Green, now mid 50s, played cheerleader Andy (left) in The Goonies. She is pictured right appearing on Reunited Apart with Josh Gad
Cheerleader Andy, played by Kerri Green, was the love interest of older Mikey's older brother Brand.
Green, now in her mid 50s, has made a spate of appearances in American TV and films since The Goonies and has appeared in shows including ER and Law &amp; Order.
She founded a production company, Independent Women Artists which made the 1999 film about teen pregnancy, Bellyfull - which she co-wrote and directed.
In the 1990s, she shared a flat in Hol with with actress Marisa Tomei's brother and future video game developer Ken Levine, who went on to create the incredibly successful series Bioshock.
Anne Ramsey: As Mama Fratelli in The Goonies and in Throw Momma from the Train 
The Goonies villain and matriarch of the criminal family Mama Fratelli was played by the late Anne Ramsey
After her appearance in the Goonies, she appeared in several hit films including 1987's Throw Momma from the Train for which she won a Saturn award for Best Supporting Actress and was nominated for an Oscar in the same category. 
Ramsey sadly died aged just 59 in 1988 after a battle with oesophageal cancer.
Kevin Spacey (left) and Robert Davi (right) in a cafe in downtown Turin, Italy in June 2021 where they filmed 'The man who drew God'
Harrison Ford says it was 'great' to reunite with Indiana...
Josh Brolin, 54, gets a massive tattoo of an animal skull...
Corey Feldman steps out in LA with wife Courtney and son...
Jennifer Lawrence beams as she presents best feature to...
Jake, a member of the criminal Fratelli's, was played by Robert Davi, who is now 70 years old.
Since The Goonies, his acting career was very successful, appearing in hundreds of films including Die Hard and The Expendables 3.
He played Latin American drug lord Franz Sanchez in the 1989 Timothy Dalton Bond flick Licence to Kill - where he ceremoniously was set on fire by 007 and blew up after walking into a petrol tanker.
Davi also appeared in Kevin Spacey's first flick since allegations of sexual misconduct were made against Spacey, The Man Who Drew God, which released last year.
Robert Davi as drug kingpin Franz Sanchez (right) in 1989 Bond film Licence to Kill starring Timothy Dalton as 007 (middle)
He has been married four times, most recently to Diana Davi in 2019 and has a total of eight children.
Davi is an outspoken conservative and supporter of the Republican party in America. In the 2020 presidential election he supported Donald Trump, saying: 'we should thank God that Trump is in this race.'
He said the media 'paint Trump and his supporters as racist and uneducated. Well, guess what – I am neither and I know quite a few people who are for Trump,' in an column for website 
Jake's criminal brother Francis Fratelli (left) was portrayed by Joe Pantoliano (right), now 71
Pantoliano played Cypher (pictured) in the 1999 sci-fi action hit The Matrix
Jake's criminal brother France was portrayed by Joe Pantoliano, now 71.
The actor's career has flourished since The Goonies, appearing many beloved films and TV series, including 2001 Christopher Nolan thriller Memento as Teddy and even as himself in Horror series Chucky, which is based on the Child's Play films, last year.
Pantoliano played Cypher in the 1999 sci-fi action hit The Matrix alongside Keanu Reeves' Neo. His character shockingly betrayed the humans in the film and started working for Agent Smith.
He appeared in hit mafia-crime series The Sopranos as Ralph Cifaretto.
Pantoliano has been married twice and is currently married to Nancy Sheppard. He has four children.
He was rushed to hospital in January 2020 after being hit by a car in Connecticut while out for a walk, 
 He was hit by a Porsche after it skidded across the road - and it sent him flying backwards into a wooden fence leaving with a 'severe head injury and some chest trauma'.
Fortunately Pantoliano was sent home the same day and made a recovery.
What Short Round did next: The strange journeys of Ke Huy Quan | EW.com
Watch Goonies star Ke Huy Quan win a fight with a fanny pack in Everything Everywhere clip | EW.com
Robert Davi: Donald Trump is the John Wayne of Politics
'Sopranos' Joe Pantoliano Rushed to Hospital After Car Accident
Share or comment on this article: 
As Ke Huy Quan scoops a Golden Globe - Where are The Goonies stars now?
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
