Jared Kushner 'dumped' Trump after ex-president dined with Kanye West and anti-Semite at Mar-a-Lago | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Jared Kushner 'dumped' his father-in-law Donald Trump after ex-president dined with Kanye West and anti-Semite Nick Fuentes at Mar-a-Lago
Jared Kushner has cut ties with father-in-law Donald Trump, a new report claims 
It came after Trump dined with Ye and Nick Fuentes, an outspoken anti-semite
Kushner, who is Jewish, refused to help when calls came in from Trump's camp 
Once one of his closest advisors, Kushner has since distanced himself, it states
 17:44, 24 December 2022 
 18:28, 24 December 2022 
Jared Kushner cut ties with his father-in-law 
, a new report has claimed - after the former president hosted 
 and renowned anti-Semite Nick Fuentes at his Mar-a-Lago compound for a dinner last month.
Once one of his closest advisors, Kushner - who is wed to Trump's daughter Ivanka - has reportedly distanced himself from the 76-year-old, after news of his unlikely dinner procession surfaced. 
The revelation was provided by insiders familiar with the matter, who told New York magazine that Kushner - 
 - has reportedly ignored requests from Trump's camp to help with the 76-year-old new presidential bid.
Instead, the former top Trump aide, who oversaw Trump's most recent, ill-fated re-election bid - has taken to handing out the ex-head of state's number to supplicants, so that they can call him directly to avoid acting as an intermediary..
Once one of his closest advisors, Jared Kushner - who is Jewish - has distanced himself from the 76-year-old, reportedly because of the people he has been associating with 
It came after after the ex-president hosted Kanye West and antisemite Nick Fuentes at his Mar-a-Lago manse for a dinner last month. The pair are pictured landing in Miami before the meet
If legitimate, the claims bolster previous reports the 41-year-old former fixer, along with his wife, are fed-up with the family patriarch, who announced his third campaign on November 15 - two days after welcoming West and Fuentes 
'He was like, "Look, I'm out. I'm really out,"' NY mag quoted one source as saying. The insider added that the dinner with Fuentes - an outspoken Holocaust denier and opponent of the GOP - was the last straw for the former fixer, who in the past would have been responsible for addressing such a controversy.
Another source, also speaking on the condition of anonymity, added the only reason Kushner was still in Trump's camp, was because he 
felt a sense of 'familial obligation.'
'There was NO insurrection!' Trump releases video rant...
Florida resident Donald Trump 'flinched' on being told that...
Spending four years as Trump's senior advisor, Kushner was 
was present Trump's campaign kick-off event at Mar-a-Lago last month. However, noticeably absent was Ivanka, 41, who also served as one of her father's most trusted handlers. 
Her absence at the time raised eyebrows, with the aspiring president's eldest daughter issuing a statement that revealed that 
she has no plans to be involved in her father's upcoming campaign.
Ivanka - who has been wed to the real estate tycoon for the past 13 years - quickly blamed her absence on the responsibilities of being a parent, She shares three young children with Kushner.
The revelation was provided by insiders familiar with the matter, who told New York magazine that the fixer - who is wed to Trump's daughter Ivanka - has ignored requests from Trump's camp to help with the 76-year-old renewed presidential bid
'I love my father very much,' the former first daughter wrote. 'This time around, I am choosing to prioritize my young children and the private life we are creating as a family. I do not plan to be involved in politics.'
She went on to write that 'while I will always love and support my father, going forward I will do so outside the political arena. 
'I am grateful to have had the honor of serving the American people and will always be proud of many of our Administration's accomplishments.'
The statement came two day after Trump dined with the 45-year-old rapper and 24-year-old Fuentes, who has amassed a pronounced following online, and was present at the riots at the Capitol on January 6, 2021. His mission is to replace the GOP with a new party run under the pretense of being white nationalist.
The news is particularly striking, as in the past, addressing the fallout from the dinner would have fallen on Ivanka and surely Kushner, who took on the role in 2020 of his father-in-law's de facto campaign manager.
Over the course of Trump's presidency, Kushner - who made millions as a major player in the New York real estate market - addressed several controversies surrounding the politician, including several that saw him come under fire as an alleged antisemite. 
Such instances include when the then-president shared an offensive image of a six-pointed star alongside a pile of money, and when he repeatedly told a group of Jewish GOP donors 'I don’t want your money.'
Another source, also speaking on the condition of anonymity, added the only reason Kushner seen speaking to Paris Saint-Germain President Nasser Al-Khelaifi during the World Cup, was still in Trump's camp, was because he felt a sense of 'familial obligation'
Kushner's and his wife's absence was felt almost immediately, when Melania, serving as a lukewarm replacement, defended her husband by simply insisting: 'He’s not Hitler.' Kushner and Ivanka are the only Jewish members of the Trump family.
That said, unlike his wife - who converted to Judaism when she married the former White House aide - Kushner did attend Trump's campaign announcement in November.
Speaking confidentially to New York magazine, the second source said that Kushner had sent a 'mixed message' to Trump's camp with his appearance, calling it 'a combination of having respect for a family member and drawing clear lines for your life.'
Trump maintains that despite the notable absences, his entire family is '100%' behind him. 
That said, another source who spoke to the publication, an advisor to Trump's 2024 campaign, provided a markedly different account, saying that virtually none of the politician's family are in his corner this time around.
'There’s nobody around him who wants him to do it,' the unnamed aide said, adding 'Forget Jared and Ivanka — Don Jr. doesn’t want him to do it!'
The source said that the 'the only person' supporting Trump's run is his son Eric's wife Lara, a former TV producer.
'The only person who wants him to do it is Eric’s wife, Lara, because she’s so ambitious,' the source said. 
The news is particularly striking, as in the past, addressing the fallout from the dinner would have fallen on the pair, who served as some of Trump's top aides during his presidency
West, meanwhile, has slammed Trump as a known liar - after the ex-president issued a statement calling the rapper a 'deeply troubled man', insisting he did not know Fuentes had been with him when he invited him for dinner.
The hip-hop star, who has come under fire for targeting Jewish people in a series of outbursts in recent months, was 
 that the 45th president was entertaining Fuentes, a self-described homophobic white supremacist incel, and West who had recently been dropped by major brands for his disgusting bigotry.
After the backlash, Trump tried to distance himself from the meeting, and said he was 
But the rapper recently hit back at Trump on the Timcast IRL podcast with Tim Pool, saying: 'I would have never wanted to do anything that hurt Trump.
'I'm on Trump's side. Trump said things that hurt me. He lied about me, but I mean, he's known for lying.
'I went into the trenches for Trump … There is no one in my position that wore that hat.' 
West, who later stormed out of the live interview, also revealed that alt-right commentator Milo Yiannopoulos had arranged the meeting with Trump and Fuentes that has caused a storm in Washington.
The dinner was seen as Trump moving even further to the right by embracing high-profile racist figures.
At the time, both Ivanka and her husband were in the Middle East, with their three children, touring the pyramids and climbing on the backs of camels on their way to Qatar for the World Cup.
During the trip, the couple were reportedly joined by an employee from Affinity Partners, an investment firm Kushner founded in 2021, for which he has raised a reported $3 billion - with $2 billion coming from the Saudi government. 
When asked why Kushner had attended his father-n-law's campaign event, former Trump aide Sam Nunberg tod New York -  'half-jokingly,' as the publication noted  -that Kusher attended 'for the Saudis,' referring to his business with the Gulf nation. 
Meanwhile, a series of recent polls show Trump may again have his presidential hope dashed - currently trailing Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis in a hypothetical GOP primary. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Jared Kushner 'dumped' Trump after ex-president dined with Kanye West and anti-Semite at Mar-a-Lago
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
