Inside the close relationship between Kevin Rudd and Anthony Albanese | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
From an emotional display of loyalty to reconnecting on the campaign trail: Inside the close relationship between Kevin Rudd and Anthony Albanese as the PM sends the man his own colleagues branded a 'psychopath control freak' to Washington
Former PM Kevin Rudd appointed Australian ambassador to the US by Albanese
Pair go way back as they served in government together when Rudd was PM
Albanese was a major figure in the infighting between Rudd and Julia Gillard
Rudd then supported him during his successful election campaign this year 
Nic White For Daily Mail Australia
 08:11, 20 December 2022 
 09:02, 20 December 2022 
Labor colleagues may have blasted Kevin Rudd as 'a psychopath, a micromanager, and a control freak' but 
 wouldn't have been one of them.
The prime minister's staunch defence of Dr Rudd as he appointed him ambassador to the US on Tuesday is just his latest time sticking up for his old mate.
Growing up in parliament together, Mr Albanese elected in 1996 and Dr Rudd in 1998, the two men go way back as political allies.
When Labor finally returned to power in 2007, Mr Albanese was a key player in the Rudd Government, both as a minister and backroom player.
Mr Albanese's most memorable show of loyalty during this turbulent period was an emotional speech in 2012 where he backed Dr Rudd over Julia Gillard.
Growing up in parliament together, Anthony Albanese elected in 1996 and Kevin Rudd in 1998, the two men go way back as political allies. Here they are in 2004
Despite a landslide victory in 2007, within three years Dr Rudd was wounded by policy failures and deeply unpopular among cabinet colleagues.
He was deposed in favour of Ms Gillard at a leadership spill Mr Albanese was bitterly opposed to for the incredible damage it did to his beloved Labor Party.
Despite being a strong Rudd ally and infrastructure minister, Mr Albanese was regarded as an honest broker among the chaos and Ms Gillard appointed him leader of the House. 
Two years later, Ms Gillard was only governing with the support of the Greens and independents and despised by voters for her carbon tax backflip.
Dr Rudd was able to force a spill that February aiming to be reinstated as PM, putting Mr Albanese between a rock and a hard place.
Holding back tears, Mr Albanese explained his decision to vote for Dr Rudd in the upcoming ballot - largely to right what he saw as the injustice of 2010.
'I have devoted my life to advancing the cause of Labor. I have despaired in recent days as I have watched Labor's legacy in government be devalued,' he said.
'We have been a good government since 2007, under Prime Minister Rudd we advanced a great deal... we should be proud of our record and not undermine it.'
Mr Albanese then lauded the many accomplishments of the Gillard Government, particularly as most of them were achieved during minority government.
'Over recent days I have had a difficult decision to make... I've consulted friends, colleagues, family members... last night, on talking to family I came to a decision,' he said.
He revealed he rang Ms Gillard and informed her he would vote for Mr Rudd at the leadership ballot, despite opposing a spill taking place at all.
When Labor finally returned to power in 2007, Mr Albanese was a key player in the Rudd Government, both as a minister and backroom player (pictured with Mr Rudd and treasurer Wayne Swan)
Mr Albanese said he frequently argued against the 'predicament' Labor now found itself in, and against colleagues whose attitude to a spill was 'bring it on'.
'I believe that the past few days have done damage to our party, there's no doubt about that,' he said.
'I argued against this sort of action before - on the night of June 23, 2010. I believe the government's difficulties can be traced to that night. 
'Labor is the party of fairness. It was not fair, it was wrong. 
'Monday's ballot is the only opportunity I have to register my dissent with the actions of that night, and I intend to do so. I do so with a heavy heart.'
He implored his colleagues to cease the infighting so he could get back to 'fighting Tories... that's what I do'.
Julia Gillard (pictured) deposed Dr Rudd as prime minister in 2010, but despite being a strong Rudd ally and infrastructure minister, Mr Albanese was regarded as an honest broker among the chaos and Ms Gillard appointed him leader of the House
Mr Albanese said he offered Ms Gillard his resignation as leader of the House, but she refused to accept it.
'She thanked me for the way that I had conducted myself and expressed confidence that I should remain leader of the House due to the loyalty and tenacity that I had shown in that position,' he explained.
'She said I would continue to have her full confidence if she was successful in Monday's ballot.'
Dr Rudd said his friend's speech brought him to tears.
'There were very few dry eyes in the Rudd household this morning,' he said.
'Not just what he said about me, but about us as a movement, and the importance about owning all the good stuff we've done together, with myself, with Julia, the whole thing.
'What Albo's talking about today is binding hearts together and binding minds together for the future.'
Ms Gillard won the ballot, but kept Mr Albanese in his position until Dr Rudd defeated her in a second leadership challenge in 2013.
'Albo is a great Labor man with a great Labor heart... I refused to accept his resignation... I can't imagine a government I lead without Anthony Albanese in there beside me,' she said after his speech.
With Dr Rudd back in charge, Mr Albanese was named deputy prime minister for the two months until the government was soundly beaten by Tony Abbott.
With Dr Rudd back in charge, Mr Albanese was named deputy prime minister for the two months until the government was soundly beaten by Tony Abbott
Dr Rudd largely faded from public view, emerging briefly as a candidate for UN secretary-general in 2016.
Then-PM Malcolm Turnbull refused to support Dr Rudd's bid, a failure of bipartisanship Mr Albanese is still angered by. 
'When an Australian is a candidate for a position, we support the Australian candidate,' he said in a 2020 interview.
'I think that the behaviour of the current Coalition, in not supporting Kevin Rudd, was outrageous.'
Dr Rudd has spent the past few years preoccupied with a crusade against News Corp as payback for its vitriolic attacks on him during the 2013 election campaign.
His petition for a royal commission into the media giant's influence in Australia has almost 500,000 signatures - the most of any submitted to parliament.
Mr Albanese has been very clear that he does not support it.
Sporting a scruffy white beard, Dr Rudd joined Mr Albanese on the campaign trail ahead of the May 21 election in his home state of Queensland
He also had to let his old friend down last year when Dr Rudd launched a covert bid to return to politics by contesting a Queensland seat at the election.
 he event went as far as commissioning a robo-poll of his appeal against Liberal MP Ted O'Brien, using Labor figures like ex-treasurer Wayne Swan and former premier Peter Beattie to obscure his involvement.
Dr Rudd was also said to want to debate Mr O'Brien in Mandarin, and paid for large newspaper ads promoting events and speeches he held in the area.
Mr Albanese had to personally talk his old friend out of throwing his hat in the ring so he wouldn't become an awkward distraction in the campaign, the sources claimed.
Instead, sporting a scruffy white beard, Dr Rudd paused his News Corp vendetta to join Mr Albanese on the campaign trail ahead of the May 21 election.
The pair focused on Dr Rudd's home state of Queensland, speaking to voters together and holding events in Brisbane.
Mr Rudd poses in his Brisbane office for his official portrait as ambassador to the US
As they barnstormed like old pals, the leadership hopeful began to get questions about whether Dr Rudd would be dispatched to Washington if Labor won.
'Complete nonsense,' he insisted. 'Seriously, (the media) needs to get over the obsession.'
Not seven months after the election, the only surprising part of Dr Rudd's appointment is that Mr Albanese ever bothered to deny it was inevitable.
So much so that the opposition hasn't much protested his appointment, such are his impeccable diplomatic credentials.
Shadow Foreign Minister Simon Birmingham said Australia's ambassador in the US was historically 'close to, and carry the ear of the prime minister of the day'.
'In appointing former prime minister Rudd, Prime Minister Albanese has personally chosen a friend and confidante, a former parliamentary and ministerial colleague, and someone in whom Mr Albanese clearly has faith and confidence,' he said.
Share or comment on this article: 
Inside the close relationship between Kevin Rudd and Anthony Albanese
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
