British Airways and Virgin Atlantic to limit bookings for flights to Heathrow during strikes | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
British Airways and Virgin Atlantic STOP taking bookings for flights to Heathrow on Border Force Christmas strike days amid fears of travel chaos
About 1,000 border agents will be striking nationwide for eight days this month
British Airways and Virgin say they will now limit tickets on flights to Heathrow
It comes amid concerns the strike action will spark travel chaos in the airport
The action is the latest to hit the UK following rail, nurse and ambulance strikes  
 15:09, 19 December 2022 
 15:49, 19 December 2022 
Ticket sales for flights into 
 are to be limited by two of the nation's biggest airliners amid fears strike action by Border Force workers will cause carnage at the airport.
In a fresh blow for holidaymakers, 
 and Virgin Atlantic have announced they will be cutting the number of bookings into the 
 travel hub - Britain's busiest airport. 
The decision comes ahead of planned industrial action that will see 1,000 border agents walking out for eight days between December 23 and New Year's Eve.
Border Force staff at Gatwick, Manchester, 
 and Cardiff will also be walking out in a row over pay, in a further hit for those seeking a winter getaway.
Meanwhile, families hoping to see relatives from overseas could now have their Christmases dashed, as Brits face another miserable 'virtual Christmas'. 
Christmas travel chaos could hit some of Britain's busiest airports this month when 1,000 border agents go on strike for eight days. Pictured: passengers at Heathrow on December 14
The strikes will affect Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham and Cardiff. Pictured is a queue the UK Border Control at Terminal 5 in Heathrow
Rail chaos despite no strikes: Fury as HUNDREDS of stations...
Rail strikes and cold weather hit High Street footfall in...
Ruff day? British Airways accidentally flies pet Labrador...
Army must NOT be used as 'spare capacity' to cover for...
A BA spokesperson said the carrier was working with the government and airport 'to ensure that we play our part in ensuring our customers are able to travel as planned at this important time of year'.
A Virgin Atlantic spokesperson also said it was working closely with government to 'minimise the impact of Border Force strikes on our customers’ journeys'.
The strikes, from December 23 to 26 and 28 to 31, come at one of the busiest periods for airlines, and the flights affected were already busy. Heathrow is a hub for both airlines, and BA is the dominant carrier.
British Airways and Virgin Atlantic have also given customers the option of extra flexibility to shift their travel to a non-strike day, and flight schedules - as well as restrictions on tickets - are being kept under review.
'We intend to operate our schedule as planned, with additional flexibility to allow customers to change their flight dates if they wish to avoid arriving on strike days', the Virgin Atlantic spokesperson said. 
British Airways says it is doing what it can to limit the impact on passengers during strike days at Heathrow 
Bleak mid-winter of strikes: When rail, bus, NHS, Border Force and postal workers will down tools this month   
Holidaymakers flying into the UK for Christmas could face chaos at some of the country's biggest airports amid strike action by border agents. Pictured is Heathrow border security
Fresh travel misery in London as more than 40 stations were still not running any trains after latest strike woe
The misery continued today for those hoping to use the railways to into London today. 
 and dozens more were reduced to hourly services despite there being no strike action, ignited fury among rail passengers. 
A union overtime ban on days when walkouts are not planned has caused widespread chaos including last-minute cancellations and 'bottlenecks' at depots as rail operators scramble to get the right number of staff in place to be able to run services safely.
One rail operator was forced to cancel 70 per cent of its services on the day yesterday, while South Western Railway has closed 40 stations until the New Year due to the ongoing disruption called by industrial action.
The rail network will shutdown once again from 3pm on Christmas Eve until 6am on December 27 as another national walkout gets under way in a bitter dispute over jobs, pay and conditions.
As a result, some Britons may be feeling increasingly resigned to only seeing their loved ones via Zoom or other video conferencing tools once again - laying waste to a third Christmas in a row. 
Millions had to sacrifice seeing loved ones over the holiday period in 2020 and 2021 due to the Covid pandemic - but now face having to do the same due to union barons shutting down critical services until January 10. 
It's understood that all airline operators at Heathrow were urged to limit the number of new tickets being sold. 
BA said that people already booked to travel to the airport during the strike days will still be able to do so.    
Meanwhile, Heathrow has insisted that the 'vast majority of travellers will be unaffected by Border Force strikes'.  
‘We are doing everything we can to protect a full flight schedule on strike days, so departing passengers should expect to travel as normal,' a spokesman said. 
The airport added that arriving passengers with UK, EU, US and Canadian passports will be able to use e-gates as usual and their journeys should be largely unaffected on strike days.
The UK faces an unprecedented number of strikes in the run up to and during the Christmas holiday period with nurses, ambulance staff and rail workers all demanding higher pay to keep up with soaring inflation.
The strike action by Border Force is being staged by the  Public Commercial Services Union (PCS), which supports workers across various government departments.
PCS general secretary Mark Serwotka said: 'The government can stop these strikes tomorrow if it puts money on the table.
'Like so many workers, our members are struggling with the cost-of-living crisis. They are desperate. They are being told there is no money for them, while they watch ministers giving out government contracts worth billions of pounds to their mates.
'Some sections of the media have accused us of playing politics with these strikes. Let me be clear: our dispute is with the employer. 
The strike action will last for a period of eight days between December 23 and New Year's Eve. Pictured: Passengers at Heathrow 
Virgin Atlantic, along with British Airways, are among the operators limiting the number of bookings on flights into Heathrow amid the strike action 
Thousands could be left without help when ambulance workers go on strike this week  
Pensioners who fall at home and women in late-stage labour are among 3,000 people who could be denied an ambulance by striking staff.  
Those who suffer falls or break an arm or leg, and women who are close to giving birth and in labour, are classed as urgent but not emergency 'category three calls'.
The strike action is set to take place on Wednesday and will see emergency services nationwide disrupted.  
It has so far only been confirmed that ambulance staff will deal with immediately life-threatening 'category one' incidents.
But last month there were almost 100,000 category three incidents requiring an ambulance across the nine trusts set to go on strike in England – an average of 3,314 a day.
If the same number of people ring 999 this Wednesday, when the ambulance strike takes place, they could be left to fend for themselves. 
Only staff at South East Coast Ambulance Service have committed to helping people following falls during the strike, and then only if someone falls outside or has been on the floor for more than four hours. 
'We will fight to improve our members’ pay, terms and conditions regardless of who is in Downing Street.'
Britain is facing an unprecedented level of strike action as the nation battles with a new winter of discontent.  
It follows strikes announced in the Driver and Vehicle Standard Agency (DVSA), Rural Payment Agency (RPA), National Highways and Department for Work and Pensions. 
Rail barons from the RMT union will continue their assault on Britain's railway services, with strike action resuming from Christmas until December 27 - and then again on January 3, 4, 6, 7. 
And the misery continued today for commuters hoping to use the railways to get to work - or to head into London for some last minute shopping. 
More than 40 stations in and around the capital were not running trains and dozens more were reduced to hourly services despite there being no strike action, ignited fury among rail passengers. 
A union overtime ban on days when walkouts are not planned has caused widespread chaos including last-minute cancellations and 'bottlenecks' at depots as rail operators scramble to get the right number of staff in place to be able to run services safely.
One rail operator was forced to cancel 70 per cent of its services on the day yesterday, while South Western Railway has closed 40 stations until the New Year due to the ongoing disruption called by industrial action.
The rail network will shutdown once again from 3pm on Christmas Eve until 6am on December 27 as another national walkout gets under way in a bitter dispute over jobs, pay and conditions.
Meanwhile, there are fresh fears that elderly people who fall at home and women in late-stage labour could be among 3,000 people denied an ambulance by striking staff.
Those who suffer falls or break an arm or leg, and women who are close to giving birth and in labour, are classed as urgent but not emergency 'category three calls'.
It has so far only been confirmed that ambulance staff will deal with immediately life-threatening 'category one' incidents. But last month there were almost 100,000 category three incidents requiring an ambulance across the nine trusts set to go on strike in England – an average of 3,314 a day.
Old people warned against falling on 999 strike days | Daily Mail Online
Share or comment on this article: 
British Airways and Virgin Atlantic to limit bookings for flights to Heathrow during strikes
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
