UK ministers threaten to block Sturgeon's new gender rules with never-before-seen legal powers | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil: How reclusive paedophile battled neck cancer and was fed through a tube at his £5m home after shameful fall from grace
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey is slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as he clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
IOPC calls for a new national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation - in the wake of Wayne Couzens 'failures'
From giant letters H and S to the curious 'ERP': The hundreds of fading signs dating back to WWII that exist around Britain - but do YOU know what they mean?
Duchess of Edinburgh has made a secret trip to Iraq, Palace reveals, where she visited a girls school and had an audience with the President
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Rishi Sunak denies 'dithering' over Suella Braverman's fate as Home Secretary STILL waits to hear if she will face sleaze probe on 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial tells how his life was 'destroyed' and demands answers over why it took so long for justice - as real killer is jailed for 29 years
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as cause of death is revealed
Chilling moment paedophile Rolf Harris warned children about 'touching' and 'yes feelings and no feelings' in 'Kids Can Say No' sex abuse educational video filmed during period of his offending in 1980s
UK ministers set to resort to never-before-used legal powers to HALT SNP's gender law, putting Westminster and Holyrood on constitutional collision course as Sturgeon vows to push through allowing 16-year-olds to transition without parental consent
MSPs passed the Gender Recognition Reform Bill by 86 votes to 39 yesterday
Cries of 'shame on you' and applause saw the parliament briefly suspended 
The Bill makes it easier to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) from 16
Ministers said they could block it, in what would be an unprecedented move 
Officials suggested the 'nuclear option' of stopping the bill reaching royal assent
Harriet Line Deputy Political Editor For The Daily Mail
 01:08, 23 December 2022 
 03:41, 23 December 2022 
Westminster may resort to using powers that it has never wielded before as the row with Scotland over its controversial gender reforms bill escalated. 
Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill was passed yesterday to jeers of 'shame on you' in Holyrood.
Parliament voted to let trans people self-identify without a medical diagnosis of gender dysphoria. And the legislation lowers from 18 to 16 the minimum age that Scots can legally 
It also slashes the timescale for adults obtaining a gender recognition certificate from two years to just three months. The vote puts MSPs on a 
 with Westminster as UK ministers consider the 'nuclear option' of stopping the bill from going for royal assent. 
Supporters of the For Women Scotland and the Scottish Feminist Network take part in a demonstration outside the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh
Women's rights campaigners protested as the Scottish parliament conducted the final vote on the Gender Recognition Reform Bill
Defiant Scots tell Westminster they will fight it over bid...
Nicola Sturgeon 'personally blocks law change that would...
Under the Scotland Act, the UK Government can challenge devolved legislation if it feels it affects national security or reserved matters. 
Gender recognition is a devolved matter, but the Government is concerned about the impact of the Bill on equalities laws which are the preserve of Westminster.
The Bill has also provoked fears that abusive males could take advantage of the new quicker and easier system to change gender with critics, including the author JK Rowling, warning that 'all a man needs to "become a woman" is to say he's one'.
Any action to block the legislation, expected to come into force next year, would be unprecedented – and would likely be subject to judicial review. Ministers have four weeks to decide whether to intervene.
Such an attempt would probably also be jumped on by First Minister Ms Sturgeon's independence push. The Scottish Government vowed to challenge any attempt to stop the Bill, which had the backing of Scottish Labour, becoming law.
A spokesman said: 'The Bill as passed is within legislative competence, and was backed by an overwhelming majority, with support from all parties.
'Any attempt by the UK Government to undermine the democratic will of the Scottish Parliament will be vigorously contested by the Scottish Government.'
A women rights protestor reacts after the bill passes, by lifting up her skirt and revealing what appears to be a fake vagina
Supporters of the For Women Scotland and the Scottish Feminist Network outside Holyrood
A protester dressed as a suffragette stands outside parliament during the protest against the bill
One protester's humorous placard likened First Minister Nicola Sturgeon to the Grinch
Joanna Cherry MP speaks outside Holyrood against the Gender Reform Bill passed earlier today
Scottish Secretary Alister Jack warned that he was considering blocking the Bill completely. 
Mr Jack said: 'We share the concerns that many people have regarding certain aspects of this Bill, and in particular the safety issues for women and children.
'We will look closely at that, and also the ramifications for the 2010 Equality Act and other UK-wide legislation, in the coming weeks – up to and including a Section 35 order stopping the Bill going for royal assent if necessary.'
A UK government source said the possibility of stopping the bill reaching royal assent was: 'The nuclear option, if you like,' 
They added: 'The ideal, of course, is that we can point out to the Scottish government all the constitutional issues the bill creates as it stands, and they can amend it before it’s fully enacted. But we’re looking very seriously at all possibilities.' 
Kemi Badenoch, minister for women and equalities, has raised concerns about the impact of the legislation.
A source close to her said she 'didn't believe the Scottish Government had considered the full impacts of this Bill – particularly on women and girls'.
The insider added: 'She shares the strong concerns raised by the Equality and Human Rights Commission, the UN special rapporteur on violence against women and girls, and other civic groups and ministers regarding the impact this Bill will have on the functioning of the Equality Act, which is designed to protect all UK citizens.'
Demonstrators organised by the For Women Scotland group gather outside Scottish Parliament as the final vote took place
No To Self ID demo outside the Scottish Parliament as the final vote of the Gender Recognition Reform Bill
 Supporters of the For Women Scotland rally outside Holyrood earlier today as the vote took place
There were cries of 'shame on you' as MSPs passed the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill by 86 to 39 this afternoon, and the parliament was briefly suspended
Today Tory leader Douglas Ross laid blame for its failure directly at Ms Sturgeon's door, saying: 'The government stopped that amendment by a single vote. The First Minister's own vote means a man standing trial for rape can claim they're a woman and force a victim to call them ''she.'' Why did the First Minister vote for this?'
SNP Minister Ash Regan speaks at the For Women Scotland and the Scottish Feminist Network demonstration outside the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh
Rape victims 'could have to use attacker's new pronouns in court'
Rape victims will need to call their attackers by female pronouns in court if they change gender, MSPs have warned.
Concerns have been raised that a man who rapes a woman and then changes gender before a trial would then have to be referred to as 'she' or 'her'.
Scottish Conservative community safety spokesman Russell Findlay, who has sought clarification on the issue from the Justice Secretary and senior Police Scotland officials, said: 'It sounds absurd, ludicrous and unimaginable, but the answers that I got were worryingly vague and completely unconvincing.'
Nationalist MSP Michelle Thomson, who previously spoke about her personal experience of rape as a teenager, failed in a bid to ensure that gender recognition certificate applications are paused if an applicant has been charged with sexual assault and would not be granted until the case is disposed of.
In the vote at the Scottish parliament, 61 MSPs voted for and 61 against, only for the amendment to fall on the casting vote of Deputy Presiding Officer Liam McArthur.
Mrs Thomson told MSPs: 'During stage 2, and again today, Russell Findlay pointed out that a woman could end up having to refer to her attacker as 'she'.
'Do members in the chamber understand how that could represent an opportunity for abusers to exert power and control over their victims?'
Social Justice Secretary Shona Robison said the Government had committed to regulations to amend the sex offender notification requirements so that people who are on the register would be required to notify police of the details if they applied for legal gender recognition.
She added: 'That will mean additional information will be available to help to identify an individual and inform their subsequent management under the multi-agency public protection arrangements.
'That will allow action to be taken either in relation to the application itself, if necessary, or as part of the broader police role in managing the registered sex offender population.'
Ahead of the votes, Miss Robison wrote to three MSPs, including Mrs Thomson, asking them to withdraw proposed changes to the legislation or risk delaying its passage through parliament.
She reportedly warned them that their amendments would put the Bill at 'serious risk' of being outwith Holyrood's competence, and said the changes risked being incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights.
The legislation sets Scotland apart from the rest of the UK – where applicants for a gender recognition certificate (GRC) must be 18 or over and have a diagnosis of gender dysphoria. Obtaining one allows an individual to change their gender on legal documents such as their birth certificate, but it can also affect their entitlements to benefits and pensions.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission, which argued the existing legal framework had the correct balance, called for clarity on the cross-border implications of the law.
It said: 'We urge the Scottish and UK Governments to work together to minimise the risk of uncertainty around the potential cross-border implications we previously raised with them, as a matter of urgency now the Scottish Parliament has passed these reforms.'
The commission said it 'might be difficult for trans people with Scottish GRCs to be certain of their legal status and rights' and there could be challenges for employers and service providers in England and Wales.
It is unclear whether any GRCs issued in Scotland would be recognised in England.
The Bill, which passed by 86 votes to 39, has been one of the most controversial in Holyrood since devolution, and debates have been hit by protests.
Opponents interrupted proceedings yesterday as social justice secretary Shona Robison brought the debate to a close. There were cries of 'shame on you' from the public gallery after the final vote.
Ms Robison told MSPs: 'Trans rights are not in competition with women's rights, and as so often before, we can improve things for everyone when those discriminated against act as allies, not opponents.'
Ms Sturgeon's government has insisted the legislation will not affect the Equality Act, which allows for trans people to be excluded from single-sex spaces such as changing rooms.
But she has faced opposition from her own party and from women's rights campaigners.
Nine SNP MSPs rebelled, including former minister Ash Regan who resigned over the issue. Two Labour MSPs voted against their party whip.
Tory MSP Rachael Hamilton said the Bill had 'shown this Parliament at its worst'.
She added: 'In the rush to make the process a little easier for trans people, the Government is making it easier for criminal men to attack women. That's the problem here.'
Miss Hamilton also said the gender Bill, which she claimed would be a 'legacy issue for the First Minister', would 'let criminal men exploit the system' and put women in jeopardy when in single-sex spaces.
Labour MP Rosie Duffield, a staunch defender of single-sex spaces for women, said they had now 'lost the fundamental right to always expect protection'.
She added: 'The women who will be most affected are those women in prison, women who are the victims of sexual violence and those already most vulnerable, powerless and at risk. It is the most basic job of all politicians to protect those people.'
Reem Alsalem, the UN's special rapporteur on violence against women, told members of Holyrood's equalities committee the plans could see violent men exploit loopholes 'to get into women's spaces and have access to women'.
What is in Scotland's gender law? 
The Scottish Parliament has passed a law which reforms the gender recognition process in Scotland.
The Gender Recognition Reform Bill passed after lengthy debates at Holyrood, often amid divisive political rhetoric.
It has been discussed for years, with strong opinions for and against changing the 2004 Gender Recognition Act.
Here are some of the key points, and what comes next.
The main element of the Bill is to make it easier for trans people to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) by removing the requirement for a diagnosis of gender dysphoria.
It will also lower the minimum age for applicants from 18 to 16 and drop the time required for an applicant to live in their acquired gender from two years to three months - six for people aged 16 and 17 - though with a subsequent, three-month reflection period.
The Bill has been amended as it moved through Holyrood.
At stage two, it was announced 16- and 17-year-olds would need to live in their acquired gender for six months rather than three before applying for a GRC.
It was also announced there will be new statutory aggravation to the offence of making a fraudulent application for a GRC.
At stage three, MSPs backed a change tabled by SNP MSP Gillian Martin which means anyone subject to a sexual harm prevention order or sexual offences prevention order will have to undergo a full risk assessment before being granted a GRC.
Campaigners in favour of the Bill say a move to make trans peoples' lives easier is long overdue.
A group of LGBTQ+ groups recently issued a joint letter saying the Bill is a 'historic opportunity to continue Scotland's journey towards full social and legal equality'.
They disagree that an expansion of trans peoples' rights comes at the expense of women's rights, saying the Bill will have little impact outside the trans community.
Nicola Sturgeon, whose government launched the Bill, said the current system of medical diagnoses was 'intrusive, traumatic and dehumanising'.
Those in opposition to the Bill say it will impact the safety of women and single-sex spaces.
They say there are insufficient safeguards to protect women and girls from predatory men, raising concerns about environments like women's prisons.
Protests inside and outside the Scottish Parliament have called on MSPs to vote down the Bill.
Some oppose the Bill on religious grounds, saying it will blur the distinction between men and women.
Unusually in Scottish politics, opposition to the Bill has cut across party lines.
In October, the SNP's Ash Regan quit the government in protest at the Bill, as nine of the party's MSPs either abstained or voted against stage one of the Bill.
Others in the SNP, like MP Joanna Cherry, have had longstanding opposition to the process of gender recognition reform.
Most Conservative MSPs are opposed to the Bill, with exceptions being Jamie Greene and Dr Sandesh Gulhane.
Scottish Labour are largely in favour, but some MSPs appear to have been in the opposition camp during debates on the amendments.
Scottish Green and Lib Dem MSPs are in favour of the new law.
Once the Bill has passed at Holyrood, attention will turn to how the UK Government reacts.
This is because UK equalities minister Kemi Badenoch has said she has concerns about legal divergence between Scotland the rest of the UK.
Any dispute between the two governments could end up in court. In the absence of any challenge, the Bill would receive royal assent, and become law.
Sunak government threatens to block Scottish gender recognition law | Transgender | The Guardian
Share or comment on this article: 
UK ministers threaten to block Sturgeon's new gender rules with never-before-seen legal powers
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
