Ivanka Trump jets off to Paris for Hanukkah with daughter Arabella | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Building up those frequent flyer miles! Ivanka Trump jets off on yet ANOTHER international trip as she and her 11-year-old daughter Arabella spend Hanukkah in Paris with visits to the Eiffel Tower, the Louvre - and a HORSE ballet
Ivanka, 41, has been sharing photos of their mother-daughter getaway on Instagram, starting with snapshots of them at the Eiffel Tower on Sunday
The former White House adviser was bundled up in a gray parka with a fur collar, flare jeans, and sneakers
Arabella, who has taken an interest in photography, had on a black nylon jacket, matching sweatpants, a knit cap, and a camera hanging around her neck 
The mother-daughter duo watched the World Cup in their hotel room before heading to the Versailles Academy of Equestrian Arts to watch a horse 'ballet'
They had a menorah with two lit candles placed in front of the TV in celebration of Hanukkah, which started on the evening of December 18, and on Monday, they visited the Louvre and La Galerie Dior together
Ivanka's trip with Arabella comes just weeks after she and her family spent Thanksgiving in the Middle East; the former first daughter also celebrated her birthday in Prague and Utah in October 
 16:59, 19 December 2022 
 16:34, 4 January 2023 
 has jetted off to Paris for a special trip with her 11-year-old daughter Arabella just weeks after spending the 
 holiday in the Middle East. 
, has been sharing photos of their mother-daughter getaway on Instagram, starting with snapshots of them posing in front of the Eiffel Tower on Sunday. 
Ivanka, 41, was bundled up in a gray parka with a fur collar, dark flare jeans, and cozy sneakers, while Arabella was dressed in all black for the outing.
Ivanka Trump is enjoying special holiday trip to Paris with her 11-year-old daughter Arabella 
Ivanka has been sharing photos of their mother-daughter getaway on Instagram, starting with snapshots of them at the Eiffel Tower on Sunday
Video shows cat who went missing for two years finally back at home
Sarah Ferguson's goddaughter dances with her bride after wedding
Tiktoker bikini fan shares she's unfazed by stares over her 'big boobs'
Ben Fogle meets JumBlack - the only person living in exclusion zone
Maryland: Heartbreaking moment Becca holds father after mother's death
Queen Camilla attends the Chelsea Flower Show
Countryfile viewers go wild for teen farmer after giving up TikTok
Cosy chats with Kate! Princess meets children at Chelsea Flower Show
King Charles and Queen Camilla arrive at Chelsea Flower Show
Adorable moment girl asks Kate what it is like to be a Princess
Lisa Snowdon opens up about her menopause struggle and abortion
Tess Hartmann says it's RUDE to not bring a present to a wedding
GOP 'shadow group' to release their version of Jan. 6...
'Disgusting!' Donald Trump Jr. is among hundreds slamming...
Mother is slammed by parents for supporting her daughter's...
The tween, who is the spitting image of her mother at that age, had on a nylon jacket, sweatpants, and white and black sneakers. She wore a black knit hat on her head and had a camera hanging from her neck. 
Arabella seems to have taken an interest in photography as of late, and she also had her camera with her when she was in Egypt and Qatar with her family. 
Ivanka skipped the winter hat and wore her long blonde hair loose around her shoulders for their day of touring. 
In another Instagram Stories post, she opened up about what it meant to her to watch France play Argentina in the World Cup final while in Paris with her daughter. 
Ivanka shared a video of Argentinian player Lionel Messi scoring a penalty kick. They had a menorah with two lit candles placed in front of the TV in celebration of Hanukkah, which started on the evening of December 18
In one of her Instagram Stories, she opened up about what it meant to her to watch France play Argentina in the World Cup final while in Paris, and later posted a photo of Messi hugging French player Kylian Mbappé after Argentina defeated France 
On Sunday evening, Ivanka and her daughter watched a horse 'ballet' held inside the royal stables at the Versailles Academy of Equestrian Arts
The next morning, Ivanka and Arabella headed to the Louvre, where they posed for a photo outside of the famous museum 
'I was studying in Paris during the summer of 1998 when France beat Brazil and won the World Cup. Incredible memories from that day!' she wrote ahead of the match. 'Let's see if there will be another epic celebration on the Champs-Élysées.' 
IVANKA TRUMP'S 2022 INTERNATIONAL TRIPS 
May: Poland to meet Ukrainian refugees and help send medical supplies to Ukraine 
July: Morocco for a getaway with her husband Jared 
October: Prague with Jared and her brother Donald Trump Jr. to accept the first grade Medal of Merit on behalf of her mother, Ivana Trump from Czech President Milos Zeman
November: Egypt to tour the pyramids with Jared and their three children 
November: Qatar to attend the World Cup with her family 
December: Paris with her daughter Arabella  
However, Argentina ended up the victor after beating France on penalties during the nail-biter matchup in Qatar. 
Ivanka shared a video of Argentinian player Lionel Messi scoring a penalty kick while watching the game from inside their hotel room. 
The former first daughter, who converted to Judaism to marry her husband Jared Kushner, had a menorah with two lit candles placed in front of the TV in celebration of Hanukkah, which started on the evening of December 18. 
She later posted a photo of Messi hugging French player Kylian Mbappé, whom she and her family met in Qatar last month.
'Absolute legends! Congrats Argentina. Congrats Messi. Congrats Mbappé. Wow!' she wrote in the on-screen text. 
On Sunday evening, Ivanka and her daughter watched a horse 'ballet' held inside the royal stables at the Versailles Academy of Equestrian Arts.
The next morning, they headed to the Louvre to see the famous artworks housed inside the museum, including the ancient Greek sculpture Venus de Milo and Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa. 
Ivanka snapped photos of Arabella taking a picture of one of the portraits in the gallery with her camera and standing in front of the luxury store Printemps du Louvre, which is located in the Carrousel du Louvre underground mall. 
The proud mom also shared a snapshot of herself holding her daughter's hand as they stood on opposite concrete roadblocks in front of the Louvre. 
Ivanka had on a cream turtleneck sweater, black leather pants, and black boots, while Arabella had on a black hoodie, matching pants, a knit cap, and boots. 
They also visited La Galerie Dior, which takes museum-goers through the history of French haute couture designer Christian Dior, his work, and the evolution of the brand. 
Ivanka shared a carousel of photos on her Instagram feed on Monday, including a picture of herself posing with Arabella in front of a Christmas tree. 
The proud mom snapped a photo of her daughter using her camera to take a picture of a portrait 
Ivanka poste photos the ancient Greek sculpture Venus de Milo (left) and Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa (right) 
Arabella, who is the spitting image of her mother at that age, was all smiles as she posed in front of the luxury store Printemps du Louvre, which is located in the Carrousel du Louvre underground mall
Ivanka documented most of their sightseeing, giving her 7.5 million Instagram followers a behind-the-scenes look at her trip
Her husband Jared and their sons, nine-year-old Joseph, and six-year-old Theodore, did not appear to be with them on the holiday vacation. 
Ivanka seems to have had the travel bug as of late and has enjoyed a number of international and national trips this fall. 
She celebrated her 41st birthday on October 30 with getaways to Prague and Utah. The next month, she and her family jetted off to the Middle East for the Thanksgiving holiday.
Their travels started in Egypt, where they rode camels and toured the pyramids, including the Great Sphinx of Giza. They then headed to Qatar to watch the World Cup and attended a total of four matches. 
Ivanka embarked on the family vacation less than a week after she publicly quit politics for the foreseeable future.  
Ivanka donned a cream turtleneck sweater and black leather pants for the day of sightseeing, while Arabella was dressed in all black. They mother daughter stopped to take a photo in front of a Christmas tree
Ivanka and Arabella also visited La Galerie Dior, which boasts a spiral staircase diorama featuring 3D-printed miniature recreations of Christian Dior's designs 
The museum is dedicated to Dior, his work, and the evolution of the iconic French fashion house 
Ivanka happily posted photos of some of the gowns that were featured in the haute couture exhibit 
The blunt line drawn by the former first daughter was evident to all on November 15, when Donald Trump announced his 2024 run from Mar-a-Lago — an event from which his daughter was conspicuously absent. 
She soon released a statement that expressed her support for her father but announced that she would not be involving herself in her politics.
'I love my father very much. This time around, I am choosing to prioritize my young children and the private life we are creating as a family,' she wrote. 'I do not plan to be involved in politics. While I will always love and support my father, going forward I will do so outside the political arena.'
moved to Florida after they left their posts at the White House, and they quickly began laying down new roots.
Last year, they scooped up a $24 million waterfront mansion that sits on 1.3 acres on Indian Creek — an exclusive island that is known as the 'Billionaire Bunker.' 
 Ivanka, her husband Jared Kushner, and their children - Arabella, Joseph, and Theodore - spent the Thanksgiving holiday in the Middle East. They started their getaway in Egypt, where they rode camels and toured the pyramids 
The family then headed to Qatar to watch the World Cup and attended a total of four matches 
Ivanka, Jared, and their children met French national team star Kylian Mbappé after the game 
Ivanka also celebrated her 41st birthday on October 30 with getaways to Prague (left) and Utah (right) 
It is believed that they plan on moving into the spatial 8,500-square-foot abode once their extensive renovations are completed. They bought the fixer-upper a little over a year after they dropped $31.8 million on a two-acre plot of land on the island in 2020.
In the meantime, they have been living in a ritzy three-floor apartment at Arte Surfside, one of the most expensive condo buildings in Surfside, Florida.
The residence, which is nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour, has a tennis court on the roof, and they have their own private pool and yard.
Since their move, Ivanka and her family are often photographed frolicking on the beach, enjoying long walks, and enjoying various watersports. 
After months of being relatively silent on social media, she has also started posting snapshots of her life and travels more frequently, like she used to before her father was elected president. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Ivanka Trump jets off to Paris for Hanukkah with daughter Arabella
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
