Lottie Moss wades into the 'nepo baby' row - but admits she's 'privileged being related to Kate'  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
'I'm sick of people blaming nepotism for why they aren't rich and famous': Lottie Moss wades into the 'nepo baby' row - but admits she's 'privileged' for being related to a model sister Kate
The OnlyFans model, 24, is the half-sister of supermodel Kate Moss, 48
Lily Allen launched a defence of celebrity children this week
She claimed many are 'starved of stability and love' due to 'narcissistic' parents 
Lottie declared she is 'sick of people blaming nepotism for why they aren't rich'
 14:56, 21 December 2022 
 15:23, 21 December 2022 
 provoked social media followers on Wednesday after lending her support to Lily Allen in the ongoing debate over socially-connected 'nepotism babies.' 
Lily, the daughter of actor 
 and film producer Alison Owen, launched a defence of celebrity children raised within privileged families this week, claiming
many are 'starved of stability and love' because of 'narcissistic' parents.
 model Lottie, 24, the half-sister of catwalk icon Kate Moss, has since supported the singer's claims in a series of tweets - just days after claiming Kate has never fully supported her. 
Lottie declared she is 'sick of people blaming nepotism for why they aren't rich and famous or successful', but did concede she is in a 'privileged' position because of Kate, 48. 
Getting involved: Lottie Moss provoked social media followers on Wednesday after lending her support to Lily Allen in the ongoing debate over socially-connected 'nepotism babies'
Entering the debate on Twitter, she wrote: 'I’m so sick of people blaming nepotism for why they aren’t rich and famous or successful - obviously it’s not fair that people who come from famous families are getting a leg up because of that but guess what? 
'Life isn’t fair - if you put your mind to something you can accomplish anything! So instead of being negative about other people's success go and try and create your own!'
Lily Allen launches a wild rant in defence of 'nepotism...
Lily Allen looks incredible in a glamorous beige satin dress...
David Harbour and wife Lily Allen match in black as they...
David Harbour and Lily Allen seem to have the time of their...
The comment posted an inevitable backlash from followers, with many referencing her connection to supermodel Kate as the basis for her own modelling career. 
Making light of the reaction, she added: 'I loveeee that people get so pressed about something that I tweet GET A LIFE.'
Stepping back: The young model later conceded her sister had provided her with a stepping stone into the industry, but maintained she led a comfortable life in spite of Kate's assistance
The young model later conceded her supermodel sister had provided her with a sizeable stepping stone into the industry, but maintained she led a comfortable life in spite of Kate's undeniable assistance. 
She wrote: 'And am privileged for numerous other reasons and as I say I am grateful for it all but s****ing on others because of it makes NO sense. Obviously I’m privileged being related to a huge model also. 
'I obviously am so grateful that I have had the opportunities I’ve had don’t get it twisted.' [sic] 
Followers were quick to respond, with many slamming the model for initially failing to acknowledge her own good fortune. 
'If you were the person you are, but had been born unconnected to success, living in poverty, you would still be in poverty,' wrote one. 
'Nothing you have comes from anything except the privileges, blessings and connections you were born with. Stop with the advice, you need to receive some. ' 
Old times: Lottie with her half-sister, supermodel Kate Moss, at London Fashion Week in 2014
Here we go: Lottie's tweets prompted an angry backlash from Twitter followers on Wednesday
A second added: 'I can see why you’d think that nepotism isn’t a massive advantage given that Kate Moss is your sister and yet you haven’t managed to do anything with that' 
While a third wrote: 'They're not blaming nepotism for why they aren't rich - they're highlighting that nepotism plays a major part in the success of a large number of famous peoples' careers. You can earn a lot of things but you can't accomplish being related to someone.' 
Evidently in agreement, a fourth added: 'People aren’t blaming nepotism for them not getting rich. 
'They blaming nepotism for giving opportunities to people that don’t deserve them- who haven’t actually worked to earn the chances they just got given because they’re the child/grandchild etc of some rich person.' 
Rant: Lily Allen previously weighed into the debate by claiming the nepotism babies people should be 'worried about' are the ones working for 'legal firms, banks and in politics'
Lily - whose brother Alfie, 36, is an actor - previously weighed into the debate on Tuesday by claiming the  only nepotism babies people should be 'worried about' are the ones working for 'legal firms, banks and in politics'.
She took to Twitter to hit back at the criticism of nepotism babies in the entertainment industry and claimed it is not a 'parent friendly' business and said these children can be 'starved' of 'love'.
In her online rant, she said: 'The nepo babies y'all should be worrying about are the ones working for legal firms, the ones working for banks, and the ones working in politics.
'If we're talking about real world consequences and robbing people of opportunity. BUT that's none of my business.'
'And before you come at me for being a nepo baby myself, I will be the first to tell you that I literally deserve nothing,' she added.
Hitting back: The singer, who is the daughter of actor Keith Allen and film producer Alison Owen (all pictured in September 2010), voiced her opinions on 'nepotism babies' 
Opinions: Lily claimed the nepotism babies people should be 'worried about' are the ones working for 'legal firms, banks and in politics' in a series of tweets
When a Twitter user asked her, 'Why are your parents blue links on Wikipedia,' she replied: 'Because I'm a nepo baby, and both my parents are super talented.' 
Lily went on to claim that the entertainment industry is not 'parent friendly' and said it can be hard to 'see one's own privilege' when 'processing childhood trauma'. 
She continued: 'In childhood we crave stability and love, nurturing, we don't care about money or proximity to power yet. 
'Many of the nepo babies are starved of these basic things in childhood as their parents are probably narcissistic.
'And entertainment business is not parent friendly eg.. Touring/months away shooting. 
'We crave stability and love': She claimed the entrainment industry is not a 'parent friendly' business and said nepotism babies can be 'starved' of 'basic things'
'It can be hard to see one's own privilege when you're still processing childhood trauma, and a lot of these kids haven't figured that out yet.'
It is not the first time that 
 as she previously ranted about her father Keith when addressing the issue back in 2015.
According to the Daily Mirror, she was involved in an exchange on Twitter when she posted lyrics to Faces Song, Ooh La La, which read 'I wish that I knew what I know now, when I was younger'.
In the posts from 2015, one user replied: 'What, that you really are talentless and only 'famous' off the back of Daddy... bore off!' 
Hitting back: Lily, whose brother Alfie, 36, (pictured) is an actor, said it can be hard to 'see one's own privilege' when 'processing childhood trauma'
Lily hit back with: 'My dad walked out on me when I was 4, I'm sick of this. My dad was at Latitude when I headlined and didn't even come to see me.
'I've probably spent more time walking my dogs than I have with my dad my entire life. And I'm 30, too old to be running to anyone.'
The Smile hitmaker has previously said she would spend weekends in the hotel room above the Groucho club as a child, with a Toblerone to keep her going.
In previous interviews, she also revealed that the ending of her parents' marriage in 1989 left her insecure and desperately craving attention.
Split: In previous interviews, Lily (pictured with her father Keith in 2007) also revealed that the ending of her parents' marriage in 1989 left her insecure and desperately craving attention 
Her father Keith has had six children with four women and Lily was partly raised by her former stepfather, comedian Harry Enfield.
Lily said: 'One of my earliest memories is of when Mum and Dad split up. We were in our council flat in Bloomsbury and Dad was saying: 'Me and Mum are splitting up now.'
'I was about four and I was thinking: 'Does that mean we've got to look for a new dad?' It was very hard for Mum. She was producing her first film and my younger brother, Alfie, was a difficult kid.
'I just lived within my own brain. I had this blanket and I'd suck my thumb and watch the world go by.'
Father: Last year, Lily also detailed her strained relationship with her father Keith (pictured in 2007) and admitted they 'haven't spoken in a while'
 and admitted they 'haven't spoken in a while'.
She told The Telegraph: 'I haven't really spoken to him, to be honest, for a while. 
'The last time I texted him was on Father's Day and he texted back saying 'Thank you.' We haven't connected for a while.'
In 2018, Lily said Keith had been left fuming when she claimed he'd suffered a 'cocaine-induced heart attack' at Glastonbury festival when she was 13 - when really it was acute food poisoning.
Upset: In previous interviews, she also revealed that the ending of her parents' marriage in 1989 left her insecure and desperately craving attention
Lily confessed: 'I got quite a cross text from him this weekend. There was a big piece [in the press] and he texted me, 'Err cocaine induced heart attack at Glastonbury. Wow'.
'And I said, 'Sorry that's what I thought… I'm really sorry if I got that wrong but that's how I remembered it and you never explained it to me in any other way so that's what I wrote' and he said, 'Well that's not true.'
And I said, 'I'm really really sorry if I got that wrong, what was it?' And he said, 'Acute food poisoning'.'
On her bond with her dad, she added: 'I was close with him and in my teenage years I really wanted to forge a relationship with him so I used to go and watch Fulham play every Saturday with him and his mates and things were really good at a certain point.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Lottie Moss wades into the 'nepo baby' row - but admits she's 'privileged being related to Kate' 
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
