Ivanka Trump shows off very toned and tanned legs during beach walk in Miami | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rioting thugs torch and overturn cars before hurling fireworks and paving stones at police after 'serious road crash' brings out hundreds onto the streets of Cardiff estate
Christian is banned from teaching for misgendering a trans pupil 'in first case of its kind in UK' - but he defiantly vows to appeal after saying he is 'devastated' by ruling
Parkrun's gender self-ID lets men 'smash women's records to smithereens', former Olympic marathon runner claims
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Buckingham Palaces refuses to return remains of Ethiopia's 'stolen prince' who is buried in Windsor Castle grounds
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: He sang about a 'successful fella' who 'lives in a very big house in the country' but Blur frontman Damon Albarn has upset his parish council with a 'noisy eyesore' at his huge farmhouse in Devon
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' after Phillip Schofield axing from This Morning as insiders believe presenter could make clean break from ITV
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
Signal failure: Free wi-fi on trains faces being scrapped to save money as the Department for Transport says operators need to 'justify the business case for it'
E. Jean Carroll seeks 'very substantial' damages for Trump's comments about her at CNN town hall with Kaitlan Collins - two weeks after winning $5million in defamation lawsuit
I'm an A&E consultant and this why I believe vapes should be be banned from shops
Plot to drive out equality chief who's standing up for women: Whistleblowers at human rights commission reveal boss is facing 'witch hunt' from trans lobby
How a gender battle engulfed Britain's equalities watchdog: Baroness faced backlash from left-wing MPs after publicly backing female-only spaces
ANDREW PIERCE: The 5ft heroine standing up to a campaign of hatred by the militant trans lobby
DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Who are the real bullies in trans row?
Montana signs bill defining sex as either male or female: Governor Greg Gianforte makes his state the fourth in the nation to declared gender binary in dozens of state documents
Sealed with a kiss! Sarah Ferguson's goddaughter ties the knot in a lavish wedding celebration in Ibiza
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
EXCLUSIVE: Tanning time! A beaming Ivanka Trump shows off her very toned legs in high-cut running shorts as she catches up with a friend during a beachside walk in the Miami sunshine
Ivanka, 41, was all smiles as she enjoyed a stroll with a friend on Monday near her home in Surfside, Florida 
The former White House senior adviser paired her shorts with a white tank and gray New Balance sneakers 
She topped off the sporty look with a white baseball cap and gold-frame aviator sunglasses 
Ivanka was seen laughing and holding her stomach as she animatedly chatted with her friend
Earlier in the day, she stepped out in a white T-shirt and gray hat to check on the progress of her $24 million waterfront mansion on Indian Creek island, which is known as 'Billionaire Bunker' 
 18:52, 10 January 2023 
 21:25, 10 January 2023 
 showed off her legs in a pair of high-cut running shorts on Monday while 
along the beach with a friend in Surfside, 
The former White House senior adviser had a smile on her face and was seen laughing out loud as she chatted with her pal during their scenic stroll 
nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour. 
Ivanka, 41, paired her icy blue shorts with a white tank top, gray New Balance sneakers, and a white baseball cap to shield her face from the blazing Florida sun. Her long blonde hair was pulled back in a bun, and she topped off her sporty look with gold-frame aviator sunglasses.  
The mother of three had minimal jewelry on aside from a band on her right hand and a red string bracelet
, which she has been wearing off and on for years.  
Ivanka Trump, 41, enjoyed a beachside walk with a friend near her home in Surfside, Florida, on Monday afternoon 
The former White House senior adviser beat the heat in a white tank and a pair of icy blue high-cut running short 
Earlier in the day, she was seen wearing a slightly different outfit when she went to check on the progress of the $24 million waterfront mansion in Indian Creek that she and her husband, Jared Kushner, are building
Have you heard of the armpit detox? A clay pit mask has gone...
'I was brought into the world in case something happened to...
'I'd tip you to put clothes ON': 322lb woman who has 'always...
Although she hasn't spoken about the purpose of the bracelet, it does bear a resemblance to the type of red string that Kabbalah practitioners wear to ward off the 'evil eye.' 
Ivanka's friend was dressed in a black sleeveless tee, black Alo Yoga spandex shorts, and dark shades for the friendly outing. 
Her brunette hair was also pulled back in a bun, but unlike Ivanka, she opted for a bit more bling. She accessorized her outfit with a gold chain link necklace and a chunky gold bracelet. 
The walk lasted about 45 minutes, and they both appeared to be having a great time. At one point, Ivanka had one hand on her chest and another on her stomach as she let out a belly laugh. 
Earlier in the day, the former first daughter stepped out in a white T-shirt and dark gray and drove to the 
 that she and her husband, Jared Kushner, are building. 
Ivanka had on the same shorts, but a white T-shirt instead of the tank top she threw on later on in the day 
Ivanka also had on a slate gray cap instead of the white one she put on for her walk 
She had her cellphone in her hand as she jogged to the front door of her luxury condo building 
Ivanka stayed inside for a few hours before she stepped back out to meet her friend 
Ivanka shielded her face from the sun with a white cap and a pair of gold-frame aviator sunglasses 
The mother of three topped off her sporty look with a pair of gray New Balance running sneakers 
Ivanka had minimal jewelry on aside from a band on her right hand and a red string bracelet, which she has been wearing off and on for years
The couple is close to finishing their dream home on the exclusive island, which is known as the 'Billionaire Bunker.' They 
bought the fixer-upper a little over a year after they dropped $31.8 million on a two-acre plot of land on the island in 2020. 
plan on moving into the spatial 8,500-square-foot abode with their children — Arabella, Joseph, and Theodore — once their extensive renovations are completed. 
They have been seen enjoying walks to Indian Creek, both with and without their children, to check on the progress of their property. 
Ivanka and her family have spent the past two years living at Arte Surfside, a luxury condominium building.
one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month. There is a tennis court on the roof, and the family has their own private pool and yard. 
Although she hasn't spoken about the purpose of the bracelet, it does bear a resemblance to the type of red string that Kabbalah practitioners wear to ward off the 'evil eye'
Ivanka was all smiles during the walk with her friend on the sunny Florida afternoon 
Ivanka spoke animatedly with her pal as they walked along the sandy road together 
The former first daughter's friend also had a smile on her face throughout the conversation 
At one point, Ivanka had one hand on her chest and another on her stomach as she let out a belly laugh
Ivanka and Jared have a new set of friends in Miami after being ostracized by many of the high-society connections they once socialized with while living in New York City
for $18.8 million sometime this year, presumably after they move into their new home. 
After she returned home on Monday morning, she spent a couple of hours inside her home before changing into a white tank and swapping hats for her walk with her friend. 
The day before, Ivanka enjoyed a day of jet skiing and fishing with her sons Joseph and Theodore as she continues to live a life of leisure in Florida after officially bidding farewell to politics. 
She took to her Instagram Stories on Sunday to share snapshots from their private boat outing in Miami, which has become a regular pastime for her and her family.
wore a black high-cut one-piece and a life vest while posing on a Yamaha WaveRunner. Her arms were extended, and she made the 'hang loose' gesture with her hands as she smiled for the camera.
The couple has 'found their crew' and become such regulars at high-end restaurants like Carbone that customers barely turn their heads when they walk in these days,' Vanity Fair reported last fall
Ivanka has been living a life of leisure since she and her husband left their posts at the White House and moved to Miami-Dade County in January 2021 
Two years later, they seem to be happier than ever in their new community, where they have found new friends and are getting ready to move into a new home
After keeping a relatively low profile, Ivanka has returned to documenting her life on Instagram, and she doesn't seem to have any desire to return to her old life in Washington, D.C. 
In November, she released a statement saying she would not be a part of her father's 2024 presidential campaign. Instead, she has chosen to prioritize her family and their private life
Now that Ivanka is officially done with politics, she has been filling her days with workout sessions with her personal trainer. She is regularly spotted driving to and from the gym in matching workout sets that highlight her toned physique
She sported dark shades to shield her eyes from the blazing sun, and her blonde hair was pulled back in a messy bun. 
was seated behind her and had his arms wrapped around her waist while they took the picture together. He also wore a life vest over his long-sleeve rash guard and striped swim trunks.  
Ivanka captioned the playful snapshot with the hang loose and water wave emojis. 
Another image showed six-year-old Theodore fishing off the back of the boat. He was dressed like his older brother in a blue rash guard, swim trunks featuring palm trees, and a life vest. The little boy also had on a sporty pair of Puma slides.
It's unclear if Jared or their 11-year-old daughter, Arabella, was with them on the boat outing. The family will likely do something special this week in celebration of Jared's birthday. The former White House senior adviser turned 42 on January 10. 
Ivanka and Jared relocated to Miami, Florida, with their three children after her father, former President Donald Trump, left office in January 2021. 
Ivanka also makes the most of the Florida whether and is often seen enjoying walks and runs both by herself and with family and friends 
The former businesswoman worked up a sweat on Monday while powerwalking with her pal 
Her long blonde hair was pulled back in a bun that was pulled through the back of her cap 
Ivanka's friend was dressed in a black sleeveless tee, black Alo Yoga spandex shorts, and dark shades for the friendly outing
The woman's brunette hair was also pulled back in a bun, but unlike Ivanka, she opted for a bit more bling. She accessorized her outfit with a gold chain link necklace and a chunky gold bracelet
seem to be happier than ever in their new community, where they have found new friends and are getting ready to move into a new home. 
After keeping a relatively low profile, the former first daughter has
 returned to documenting her life on Instagram, and she doesn't seem to have any desire to return to her old life in Washington, D.C.
In November, she released a statement saying she would not be a part of her father's 2024 presidential campaign. Instead, she has chosen to prioritize her family and their private life.  
Now that Ivanka is officially done with politics, she has been filling her days with workout sessions with her personal trainer. She is regularly spotted driving to and from the gym in matching workout sets that highlight her toned physique. 
Water sports have also become a natural pastime for the born and bred New Yorker, who has been taking wakeboarding lessons in her free time.
Back in September, she shared photos of herself wakeboarding underneath a rainbow that were so picturesque, she was accused of photoshopping the images.   
Ivanka likely has special plans with her husband, Jared, this week in celebration of his birthday. The former White House senior adviser turned 42 on Tuesday, January 10 
When Ivanka turned 41 on October 30, she had multiple celebrations with her girlfriends, including a private boat trip in Miami. She and Jared also enjoyed trips to Utah and Prague around that time 
Ivanka Trump enjoyed a day of jet skiing and fishing with her sons Joseph (pictured) and Theodore in Miami on Sunday 
The proud mom shared snapshots from the outing on her Instagram Stories, including a picture of six-year-old Theodore fishing off the back of the boat 
It's unclear if Jared or their 11-year-old daughter, Arabella, was with them on the private boat 
The family is often seen spending their afternoons on a chartered boat in Biscayne Bay, where they swim in the water and go tubing. They have regular trips to the beach, and her kids often have their boogie boards in tow. 
The mother of three still goes running with her husband, an activity they started doing together back when they still lived in New York City. They also enjoy bike rides, golf sessions, and long walks both with and without their three children. 
Ivanka may have another activity on her roster after spending the first day of 2023 playing padel with friends in Miami. The racquet sport, which is popular in Spain and Latin America, is usually played in doubles on a small, closed court. 
She was spotted arriving at the mansion of billionaire businessman Wayne Boich on New Year's Day in a black service car, dressed in a white tennis dress, visor, and sneakers, exclusive DailyMail.com photos show.
Ivanka, an avid tennis fan, appears to share a love for racquet sports with Boich, who earned his business degree at the University of Miami on a full tennis scholarship. 
The Ohio coal mining heir now runs the Miami Padel Open, a sporting event sponsored by high-end and luxury brands. Padel could become her go-to sport in the new year. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Ivanka Trump shows off very toned and tanned legs during beach walk in Miami
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
