Ian Kirwan: 15 year old boy convicted of murdering software engineer in Redditch | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
She said YES! Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez are engaged - after a swoon-worthy proposal on his superyacht and a ginormous diamond to seal the deal
Madeleine McCann detectives begin new major search for missing toddler at Portuguese reservoir that suspect Christian Brueckner called his 'little paradise'
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
Teacher who bombarded 17-year-old schoolgirl with explicit messages on Snapchat and matched with her on dating app is banned from classroom for two years
Ray Stevenson dies at 58: Irish actor starred Marvel's Thor movies and the upcoming Star Wars series Ahsoka
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
So who could replace axed Phillip Schofield on This Morning? The runners and riders who might take over from Phil AND Holly after feud
'Phil was sacked. He and Holly deserve each other': Ex-This Morning star Eamonn Holmes tears into Willoughby and Schofield - as Dermot O'Leary and Alison Hammond pay 30-second tribute to axed host at start of today's show
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
Who's supporting who in Team Willoughby v Team Schofield? As Holly wins battle over the This Morning sofa, we reveal the feuding pair's rival camps - from the show's veteran editor Martin Frizell to head of daytime Emma Gormley and ITV boss Kevin Lygo
Body language expert reveals what Alison Hammond and Dermot O'Leary REALLY felt as they took over This Morning - as fans question brevity of Phillip Schofield tribute
So who do YOU think should replace Phil and Holly? Rylan Clark and Dermot O'Leary take the lead in MailOnline poll of who should appear on This Morning sofa
Revealed: The 15 best sandwiches of all time (and how to serve them) - with two vegan options making the cut
Moving swiftly on! Alison Hammond and Dermot O'Leary pay just 30 seconds tribute to Phillip Schofield on This Morning - as fans spot that his name has already been wiped from the show's credits
Warning to mobile banking customers over sinister 'shoulder surfing' method criminals use to gain access to victims' cash - with one target waking up to find £73,000 gone from his accounts
Retired colonel denies defrauding MoD out of £43,000 to pay for his children's boarding school fees and tells jurors he was not 'wedded' to the idea of private education
Is this the beginning of the end for LTNs? Now Sadiq Khan admits low-traffic neighbourhoods 'aren't perfect' and some may need REMOVING in London -
I'm an A&E consultant and this why I believe vapes should be be banned from shops
Are police finally cracking down on TikTok 'prankster'? Cops swoop on teenager's flat that he shares with his mum as outrage grows over clips of him storming homes at random, harassing women, stealing dogs and jumping into strangers' cars
The tiny changes in your voice that give away whether you are faking a sickie... and can be picked up by AI
How does YOUR town stack up? Study reveals the UK's mobile phone scam HOTSPOTS - so is your area on the list?
Drug drivers as young as 15 and as old as 77 are being caught high on cocaine and cannabis: 19,828 motorists were reported by police for taking illegal substances last year, DVLA figures show
Newcastle 0-0 Leicester LIVE: Foxes riding their luck as they look for vital win to boost their survival bid, with Toon hitting the post TWICE after Bruno Guimaraes escaped red for early lunge
Chilling CCTV shows moments before software engineer was stabbed in the chest after a row at Asda supermarket - as boy, 15, is convicted of murder
A 15-year-old boy has today been convicted of the murder of Ian Kirwan, 53 
Mr Kirwan died after being stabbed outside an Asda store in Redditch, Worcs
The boy, part of a group which 'terrorised' locals, was challenged by Mr Kirwan
 12:56, 18 January 2023 
 16:59, 18 January 2023 
Chilling CCTV showing the moments before a software engineer was stabbed in the chest has been released - as a 15-year-old boy was convicted of the murder.  
Ian Kirwan, 53, had challenged a group of youths for 'messing about in the toilets' of an Asda supermarket in Redditch, Worcestershire, on March 8 last year.
Mr Kirwan, a Jaguar Land Rover worker, was stabbed in the heart outside the store on Jinnah Road and died within an hour.
Five youths, aged between 13 and 16, were subsequently charged with murder and had been on trial since November.
Today a jury at Birmingham Crown Court found the boy who stabbed Mr Kirwan - who is now 15 but was 14 at the time - guilty of murder and possession of a knife.
Police have now released CCTV footage showing the teenagers in the ASDA moments before Mr Kirwan was killed.  
Ian Kirwan, 53, had challenged a group of youths for 'messing about in the toilets' of an Asda supermarket
Revealed: Met rapist David Carrick sent selfies posing with...
Sex monster cop David Carrick was paid at least £60,000 by...
Police have now released CCTV footage showing the teenagers in the ASDA moments before Mr Kirwan was killed
Police at the scene of the stabbing outside an Asda superstore in Redditch, Worcestershire
A 16-year-old boy, who was 15 at the time, was cleared of murder and an alternative charge of manslaughter but found guilty of violent disorder. He had previously admitted possession of a knife.
Two 14-year-old boys were also found guilty of violent disorder after being cleared of murder and manslaughter. Another 16-year-old boy was acquitted after being cleared of murder, manslaughter and violent disorder.
'I'LL NEVER GET OVER HIS DEATH': IAN KIRWAN'S WIDOW REVEALS HEARTACHE
In a statement released by West Mercia Police following the verdict, Ian Kirwan's wife paid tribute to him and said she will 'never recover' from his death.
She said: 'Ian was a big kid; a wonderful person who was full of love, kindness, and generosity. I really miss him in my life.
'I miss his ways that would drive me crazy but he always made me and our family and friends happy and there was never a day that we wouldn't laugh when he was with us.
'Ian would always make us feel protected, secure, and safe.
'Ian was the better half in our relationship. He gave people chances, was a fountain of knowledge, and was passionate about the world, peace, politics, animals, health, and education.
'Ian would have helped anyone, even someone who had done him wrong. He had the biggest heart, he cared for our family and our friends and always supported them where he could in tough times.'
Mrs Kirwan continued: 'The decisions made by the youths on March 8, 2022, didn't just take my husband from me but it also took my life, my plans for the future and has an impact on all my choices I make in life.
'Normally when a person dies, they are surrounded by loved ones and family but because of the tragic circumstances of Ian's death, he died alone surrounded by strangers who were kind enough to help him. Nobody should ever have to die like that.
'I would love to have one more hug with him. When he left on the evening of [that day] we said goodbye and 'love you' to each other but I didn't hug him and I can't explain how much I wish I had.
'I feel scared of the future. I cannot think about it as my life moving forward is alone. Ian was my rock, my soul mate, my husband. I will never recover from his death. Ian didn't deserve to die, he still had so much to live for.'
The jury spent more than 30 hours deliberating. Sentencing arrangements are yet to be confirmed.
Mr Kirwan, described as a 'loving uncle' to three nephews, worked as an artificial intelligence engineer for Jaguar Land Rover, initially in Coventry before working from home following the Covid-19 pandemic.
On the evening of March 8 last year, he went to B&amp;Q in Redditch to purchase a replacement light switch, before going into to Asda to buy some wine and snacks.
It was whilst using a toilet in the supermarket at around 7:15pm that he first encountered the boys, who had entered the store with their hoods up and faces covered.
The trial heard one of them was bragging about urinating on the floor while another banged on Mr Kirwan's cubicle door to get him to hurry up.
A few minutes later Mr Kirwan approached the group as they were sat on trollies outside and said words to the effect of: 'Which one of you was f***ing around in the toilet?'
It was said one of the boys replied: 'If you want a problem we'll have a problem.'
A scuffle then ensued, the court heard. CCTV captured the group of youths confronting Mr Kirwan who made karate-style defensive kicks.
At 7:19pm the 14-year-old delivered the single fatal blow to his chest with the knife. Mr Kirwan retreated inside the supermarket but died less than an hour later before making it to hospital.
The youths, one of whom briefly pursued the victim into the store, fled the area towards Redditch railway station.
A ten-week trial at Birmingham Crown Court was told Mr Kirwan, an artificial intelligence engineer who worked at Jaguar Land Rover's Coventry headquarters, was an 'unfortunate member of the public in the wrong place at the wrong time'.
All those convicted will be sentenced, at the same court, on February 15.
High Court Judge Mr Justice Fraser told the 15-year-old who was convicted of murder: 'I know that your counsel will have explained this to you already - you are going to be sentenced to the youth equivalent of a life sentence.
'But I am not going to pass that sentence (now) because I have to fix the minimum term. I am going to do that on the 15th of February.
'You will be physically brought to court on February 15.'
The youth, who appeared by a video-link to a secure unit, showed little reaction as the jury returned its guilty verdict, glancing to his left and then at a floor, before continuing to watch other verdicts being returned.
After the verdict, Mr Kirwan's widow said: 'The decisions made by the youths on March 8, 2022, didn't just take my husband from me but it also took my life, my plans for the future and has an impact on all my choices I make in life.
'Normally when a person dies, they are surrounded by loved ones and family but because of the tragic circumstances of Ian's death, he died alone surrounded by strangers who were kind enough to help him. 
'Nobody should ever have to die like that.'
Detective Superintendent Leighton Harding, senior investigating officer for West Mercia Police, said: 'This was an appalling attack on an innocent man going about his daily life, which caused shock and upset in the local community.
'I'm pleased that justice has been done today for Ian and our thoughts remain with his family and friends, who have shown incredible strength throughout the investigation and the trial.
'I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the public for their help in identifying witnesses that were crucial to this investigation. We had an incredible response to our appeals and the information gathered was critical in securing this conviction.
'I'd also like to thank the team who have worked on this case. It has been an incredibly complex investigation and they have worked tirelessly to ensure justice for Ian.
A 14-year-old boy claimed he forgot he was carrying a knife when he stabbed Mr Kirwan. He claimed he did not intend to harm the Jaguar Land Rover worker
Revealed: Met rapist David Carrick sent selfies posing with...
Sex monster cop David Carrick was paid at least £60,000 by...
Ian Kirwan, 53, pictured, was stabbed to death outside an Asda store in Redditch on March 9
'The danger of carrying a knife is painfully obvious in this very sad case. It is simply unacceptable for anyone to carry a knife.
'Thankfully, violent behaviour on the streets in our area is a rare occurrence but we continue to work hard to keep our communities safe. Today's convictions send a clear message that we will take swift action against anyone who carries a knife or engages in violence.'
In a statement, the Crown Prosecution Service said Mr Kirwan's murder was 'no accident' after the youths involved had travelled from Birmingham to Redditch for a fight.
Lucy Myatt, a Senior Crown Prosecutor in the West Midlands for the CPS, said: 'This was a senseless murder which has devastated Mr Kirwan's family and friends.
'The defendant went out looking for trouble and encountered Mr Kirwan who simply challenged the group of boys about their bad behaviour.
'This encounter cost a man his life, and no outcome can replace the terrible loss his family has suffered.
'I hope the outcome of today's hearing serves as a stark reminder of the consequences of carrying and using a knife.
'Those who choose to carry knives can expect to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
'Our thoughts are with Mr Kirwan's family at this difficult time.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Ian Kirwan: 15 year old boy convicted of murdering software engineer in Redditch
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
