Ivanka Trump shows off new LONG hair as she heads to skatepark with her kids | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Cabinet Office refers Boris Johnson to police over possible new lockdown breaches at Chequers and Downing Street amid claims ex-PM was visited by friends despite Covid restrictions
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
Ministers to bar foreign students from bringing family members with them to Britain in bid to slash immigration numbers - but Suella Braverman loses battle to prevent graduates from working in the UK after their course ends
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just minutes after schoolboy's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet guest at premiere of Asteroid City
Julia Garner exudes Old Hollywood glamour in all green as she debuts a straight platinum up-do at the premiere of Asteroid City in Cannes
Brie Larson commands attention in a unique sequined midi dress as she attends the Asteroid City premiere during 76th Cannes Film Festival
Out of this world! Scarlett Johansson turns heads in pale pink dress as she joins Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, Rita Wilson and Brie Larson at the premiere of Asteroid City in Cannes
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Grenfell fire investigator who killed himself by overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT commit suicide, inquest rules
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
EXCLUSIVE: Letting their hair down! Ivanka and Jared enjoy an afternoon at a skatepark in Miami with their three kids - as she shows off new LONG hairstyle after chopping off her blonde locks
Ivanka, 41, and Jared, 42, were spotted watching their children at a skateboarding park in Miami on Sunday 
The couple's sons, Joseph, nine, and Theodore, six, had a lesson with a private instructor 
Their 11-year-old daughter, Arabella, was also with them, but she didn't join her brothers 
Ivanka was dressed in a blue geo-patterned overcoat, a taupe turtleneck, flare jeans, and black boots 
The former White House senior adviser's blonde hair was long and worn loose down her shoulders, less than a week after she was seen leaving a Miami salon with what appeared to be a much shorter cut 
When Ivanka wasn't helping her sons, she was hanging out with Jared on the sidelines at the skatepark  
 20:14, 16 January 2023 
 18:47, 17 January 2023 
 and her husband, Jared Kushner, enjoyed a family outing at a skatepark in Miami on Sunday as they watched their children take a skateboarding lesson with an instructor. 
 were spotted standing on the sidelines while their sons, Joseph, nine, and Theodore, six, practiced their skills. The couple's 11-year-old daughter, Arabella, was also there, but she didn't join her brothers' lesson.
Ivanka, 41, was dressed in a blue and white geo-patterned overcoat that she wore over a taupe turtleneck and dark flare jeans. She topped off her look with a pair of black heeled boots. 
Her blonde hair was long and worn loose down her shoulders,
with what appeared to be a much shorter cut that was pulled back into a tiny twist at the nape of her neck. 
Ivanka Trump, 41, and her husband, Jared Kushner, 42, took their three children to a skatepark in Miami on Sunday 
The former White House senior advisers hung out on the sidelines while their sons Joseph, nine, and Theodore, six, took a lesson with a private instructor 
The couple's 11-year-old daughter, Arabella, was also with them, but she didn't join her brothers
Ivanka's blonde hair was long and worn loose down her shoulders (right) less than a week after she got a dramatic haircut (left)
Last Wednesday, Ivanka was seen leaving a hair salon with a much shorter-looking 'do (left), but on Sunday she was sporting a much longer style (right) 
Proving patience really is a virtue! FEMAIL reveals how...
Is THIS 10-minute recipe the answer to all your winter woes?...
Meals for a steal! Dietician reveals how to whip up 18...
It looked as though she had returned 
to her White House bob haircut, which she debuted on a political trip to South America in 2019 and later grew out. However, she wore her hair up for the rest of the week, and by the weekend it was long again. 
Ivanka had on dark sunglasses and held her cellphone in her hand, ready to take pictures of her kids at a moment's notice. 
Jared, 42, was dressed casually in a black vest worn over a dark sweater and faded black jeans. He looked every bit the dad in a royal blue New York Giants cap and gray New Balance sneakers. 
Like his wife, he also sported dark shades to shield his eyes from the blazing Florida sun. 
Ivanka and Jared's sons looked like the spitting image of their father in their skateboarding gear. Joseph sported a gray zip-up hoodie over a Nike T-shirt and red sweatpants. He wore black sneakers, wrist guards, and a white helmet. 
Video shows cat who went missing for two years finally back at home
Sarah Ferguson's goddaughter dances with her bride after wedding
Tiktoker bikini fan shares she's unfazed by stares over her 'big boobs'
Queen Camilla attends the Chelsea Flower Show
Countryfile viewers go wild for teen farmer after giving up TikTok
Maryland: Heartbreaking moment Becca holds father after mother's death
Adorable moment girl asks Kate what it is like to be a Princess
Tess Hartmann says it's RUDE to not bring a present to a wedding
Lisa Snowdon opens up about her menopause struggle and abortion
2010: Kevin McCloud admires Lincoln Miles' bungalow transformation
Dame Kelly Holmes got 'carried away' when meeting Princess of Wales
Princess of Wales tells children 'you have to work hard' as a royal
Ivanka was spotted holding her one of her children's skateboards under her arm in the parking lot 
Jared carried his son Theodore's neon-green skateboard while he adjusted his helmet 
Arabella was spotted with a helmet in her hand but no board. The tween was dressed in a black hooded sweatshirt and a sporty light-blue skirt. The topped off her look with a hot pink backpack purse and black and blue Nike sneakers
It's unclear if Arabella had her own lesson or went off to do her own think while the family was at the skatepark 
Ivanka sat right on the ground while her sons stretched out with their instructor before their lesson 
The mother of three was dressed casually in a blue and white geo-patterned overcoat
The former first daughter wore the coat over a taupe turtleneck sweater and dark flare jeans 
Ivanka topped off her look with a pair of black heeled boots and dark shades 
Theodore opted for a funky black skull helmet with a neon-green spiked mohawk design paired with a white T-shirt, gray athletic pants, and neon-green sneakers. 
The family was seen walking into the skatepark together with Ivanka and Jared carrying their children's skateboards. 
Arabella was spotted with a helmet in her hand but no board. The tween was dressed in a black hooded sweatshirt and a sporty light-blue skirt. The topped off her look with a hot pink backpack purse and black and blue Nike sneakers. 
It's unclear if she went off on her own lesson or hung out in the background while her brothers skateboarded together. 
Ivanka was seen sitting on the ground close to her sons as they stretched with their instructor before they started riding their skateboards. 
Ivanka sat on a stoop and watched her sons' practice their skills on one of the small ramps at the skatepark 
The boys looked like the spitting image of their father, Jared, in their skateboarding gear 
Theodore got a little extra help from his instructor, who held onto him as he rode down the incline on his board
Ivanka had a bright smile on her face as she cheered her sons on during the family outing  
At one point, she was seen proudly clapping for her boys as they rode their skateboards down the inclin 
Ivanka kept a close watch as Joseph sailed down the ramp without any help from his instructor 
Ivanka had an extra board that she held onto, which may have belonged to her daughter 
Skateboarding is just one of the many activities the family has taken up since they moved to Florida two years ago 
Ivanka and Jared relocated to Miami with their three children after her father, former President Donald Trump, left office in January 2021 
The proud mom smiled and clapped as she watched Joseph and Theodore work on their skills on a small ramp inside the skatepark. Her youngest son got a little extra help from his instructor, who held onto him as he rode down the incline on his board. 
When she wasn't on the ramp with her sons, she was hanging out with Jared and the other parents.
The family trip to the skatepark followed Ivanka and Jared's date night at Call My Gaby, a romantic Miami Beach hotspot that serves Italian fare and pizzas. 
The former first daughter took to Instagram on Saturday to share a photo of them cuddled up at their table inside the restaurant. She was dressed in a black tank and minimal makeup as she smiled next to her husband, who had on a blue plaid button-down shirt. 
The dinner may have been a late birthday celebration for Jared, who turned 42 on January 10. 
 Ivanka and Jared appeared to be in great spirits as they hung out at the skatepark and watched their kids 
Ivanka sweetly brushed Joseph's hair off his forehead before he road down the ramp 
The mom was also seen holding onto Theodore as he stood on top of his skateboard 
Theodore had on a white T-shirt, gray athletic pants, and a pair of neon-green sneakers 
The little boy topped off his skateboarding look with a funky helmet featuring a spiked mohawk design 
Ivanka, Jared, and the instructor all surrounded Theodore while he practiced a trick on his board 
 Joseph was dressed a gray zip-up hoodie, which he wore over a Nike T-shirt and red sweatpants 
Joseph topped off his look with a white helmet and black sneakers, unlike his younger brother, who opted for neon colors 
On Monday, Ivanka and her children spent Martin Luther King Jr. Day volunteering at the Jewish Community Services Kosher Food Bank, the only food bank in Miami-Dade County that offers kosher foods for those who observe Jewish dietary laws.
She converted to Judaism to marry Jared in 2009, and they are raising their kids in the same faith. She took to Instagram Stories to share photos from their day working with the food bank, including footage of herself pushing Theodore on a rolling cart as they put donation bags together.
'Always love supporting their great work feeding families in need,' she captioned a snapshot of herself posing with Arabella, Joseph, and Theodore.
Ivanka and Jared relocated to Miami with their three children after her father, former President Donald Trump, left office in January 2021. They spent the past two years living at Arte Surfside, a luxury condominium building nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour. 
It is one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month. There is a tennis court on the roof, and the family has their own private pool and yard.
seem to be happier than ever in their new community, where they have found new friends and are getting ready to move into their dream home.
The family has spent the past two years living at Arte Surfside, a luxury condominium building nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour
Arte Surfside is one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month 
Ivanka and Jared seem to be happier than ever in their new community, where they have found new friends and are getting ready to move into their dream home
Jared looked every bit the dad in a sport black vest that he wore over a dark sweater 
Jared also had on a royal blue New York Giants cap and gray New Balance sneakers 
When they weren't helping their sons, they were standing on the sidelines with the other parents 
The couple was spotted chatting with another man, who appeared to be a fellow parent 
Ivanka and Jared have kept a relatively low profile since they moved to Miami from Washington, D.C.  
In November, Ivanka released a statement saying she would not be a part of her father's 2024 presidential campaign. Instead, she has chosen to prioritize her family and their private life
It's unclear what is in store for Ivanka career-wise - if anything - after she officially quit politics a few months ago
After keeping a relatively low profile, the former first daughter has
 returned to posting photos on Instagram, and she doesn't seem to have any desire to return to her old life in Washington, D.C.
In November, she released a statement saying she would not be a part of her father's 2024 presidential campaign. Instead, she has chosen to prioritize her family and their private life. 
It's unclear what is in store for her career-wise — if anything — after she officially quit politics a few months ago.
Before her father became president, she appeared on his reality show The Apprentice, served as executive vice president of the Trump Organization, and had her own eponymous fashion lines.
She gave up her former life in New York City to serve in the Trump administration and never returned back to it.
Before her father became president, she appeared on his reality show The Apprentice, served as executive vice president of the Trump Organization, and had her own eponymous fashion lines
Ivanka and Jared gave up their former life in New York City to serve in the Trump administration and never returned back to it
Now that Ivanka is officially done with politics, she has been filling her days with workout sessions with her personal trainer
Ivanka is regularly spotted driving to and from the gym in matching workout sets that highlight her toned physique
The mom has also been spending plenty of time with her three children and fellow parents in the area 
Water sports have also become a natural pastime for the born and bred New Yorker, who has been taking wakeboarding lessons in her free time
The family is often seen spending their afternoons on a chartered boat in Biscayne Bay, where they swim in the water and go tubing. They have regular trips to the beach, and her kids often have their boogie boards in tow
Ivanka still goes running with Jared, an activity they started doing together back when they still lived in New York City. They also enjoy bike rides, golf sessions, and long walks both with and without their kids 
Ivanka and Jared are close to finishing the renovations on their $24 million waterfront mansion on Indian Creek , an exclusive island known as the 'Billionaire Bunker'
The couple bought the fixer-upper a little over a year after they dropped $31.8 million on a two-acre plot of land on the island in 2020. They plan on moving into the spatial 8,500-square-foot abode with their children once it is finally completed
The couple has been seen enjoying walks to Indian Creek, both with and without their children, to check on the progress of their property 
Ivanka and Jared are close to finishing the renovations on their 
, an exclusive island known as the 'Billionaire Bunker.' 
bought the fixer-upper a little over a year after they dropped $31.8 million on a two-acre plot of land on the island in 2020. They plan
 on moving into the spatial 8,500-square-foot abode with their children once it is finally completed. 
They have been seen enjoying walks to Indian Creek, both with and without their children, to check on the progress of their property. 
Ivanka and Jared's current rental at Arte Surfside is 
for $18.8 million sometime this year, presumably after they move into their new home. 
Now that she is officially done with politics, she has been filling her days with workout sessions with her personal trainer. She is regularly spotted driving to and from the gym in matching workout sets that highlight her toned physique. 
Water sports have also become a natural pastime for the born and bred New Yorker, who has been taking wakeboarding lessons in her free time. 
Video shows cat who went missing for two years finally back at home
Sarah Ferguson's goddaughter dances with her bride after wedding
Tiktoker bikini fan shares she's unfazed by stares over her 'big boobs'
Queen Camilla attends the Chelsea Flower Show
Countryfile viewers go wild for teen farmer after giving up TikTok
Maryland: Heartbreaking moment Becca holds father after mother's death
Adorable moment girl asks Kate what it is like to be a Princess
Tess Hartmann says it's RUDE to not bring a present to a wedding
Lisa Snowdon opens up about her menopause struggle and abortion
2010: Kevin McCloud admires Lincoln Miles' bungalow transformation
Dame Kelly Holmes got 'carried away' when meeting Princess of Wales
Princess of Wales tells children 'you have to work hard' as a royal
Ivanka and Jared's current rental at Arte Surfside is set to hit the market for $18.8 million sometime this year, presumably after they move into their new home
Skateboarding is the latest activity the couple's children have taken up since the moved to Miami 
Ivanka was seen shaking hands and exchanging pleasentries with her son's instructor during their session 
The family appeared to be having a great time at the skateboarding park together 
Jared also leaned in to shake the man's hand while Theodore held onto his board behind them 
On Monday, Ivanka and her children spent Martin Luther King Jr. Day volunteering at the Jewish Community Services Kosher Food Bank 
She took to Instagram Stories to post photos of her children putting together donations bags 
The mom included a video of herself pushing Theo on a metal card while they volunteered 
The organization is the only food bank in Miami-Dade County that offers kosher foods for those who observe Jewish dietary laws
Ivanka also posted some scenic photos from when she was outside on Monday 
On Saturday, Ivanka shared a photo of herself enjoying a romantic dinner with Jared at Call Me Gaby in Miami Beach. The dinner may have been a late birthday celebration for Jared, who turned 42 on January 10
Proving patience really is a virtue! FEMAIL reveals how...
Is THIS 10-minute recipe the answer to all your winter woes?...
Meals for a steal! Dietician reveals how to whip up 18...
The family is often seen spending their afternoons on a chartered boat in Biscayne Bay, where they swim in the water and go tubing. They have regular trips to the beach, and her kids often have their boogie boards in tow. 
The mother of three still goes running with her husband, an activity they started doing together back when they still lived in New York City. They also enjoy bike rides, golf sessions, and long walks both with and without their three children. 
Ivanka may have another activity on her roster after spending the first day of 2023 playing padel with friends in Miami. The racquet sport, which is popular in Spain and Latin America, is usually played in doubles on a small, closed court. 
She was spotted arriving at the mansion of billionaire businessman Wayne Boich on New Year's Day in a black service car, dressed in a white tennis dress, visor, and sneakers, exclusive DailyMail.com photos show.
Ivanka, an avid tennis fan, appears to share a love for racquet sports with Boich, who earned his business degree at the University of Miami on a full tennis scholarship. 
The Ohio coal mining heir now runs the Miami Padel Open, a sporting event sponsored by high-end and luxury brands. Padel could become her go-to sport in the new year. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Ivanka Trump shows off new LONG hair as she heads to skatepark with her kids
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
