Rishi Sunak and heiress wife Akshata have 'less glitzy' flat | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Cabinet Office refers Boris Johnson to police over possible new lockdown breaches at Chequers and Downing Street amid claims ex-PM was visited by friends despite Covid restrictions
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
Ministers to bar foreign students from bringing family members with them to Britain in bid to slash immigration numbers - but Suella Braverman loses battle to prevent graduates from working in the UK after their course ends
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just minutes after schoolboy's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet guest at premiere of Asteroid City
Julia Garner exudes Old Hollywood glamour in all green as she debuts a straight platinum up-do at the premiere of Asteroid City in Cannes
Brie Larson commands attention in a unique sequined midi dress as she attends the Asteroid City premiere during 76th Cannes Film Festival
Out of this world! Scarlett Johansson turns heads in pale pink dress as she joins Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, Rita Wilson and Brie Larson at the premiere of Asteroid City in Cannes
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Grenfell fire investigator who killed himself by overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT commit suicide, inquest rules
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
A peek inside Downing Street: Friends say Rishi Sunak and billionaire heiress wife Akshata have 'far less glitzy' flat than Boris Johnson
Profile in Tatler gives glimpse of lifestyle of PM and his wife in Downing Street
Couple living in smaller flat above No10 that they refurbished as Chancellor 
They are said to have 'velvet sofas' in 'jewel colours' as well as 'opulent' curtains 
James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline
 08:37, 28 December 2022 
 16:16, 28 December 2022 
 and wife Akshata are living in 'far less glitz' than previous 
A profile stresses the couple's desire to foster a lower-key image, even though they are renowned as among the richest in politics.
The PM and Mrs Murty have chosen to occupy the smaller flat above No10 that they refurbished at their own expense when he was Chancellor. They live there with daughters Krishna, 11, and Anoushka, nine.
By contrast the Johnsons followed the example of other recent premiers by using the larger apartment over No11, which they overhauled with the help of an interior designer.   
 stressing Mr Sunak and Ms Murty want a less flashy home, it says they have 'velvet sofas' in 'jewel colours' and 'opulent' curtains in the historic property.  
Rishi Sunak and wife Akshata are living in 'far less glitz' than previous Downing Street inhabitants Boris and Carrie Johnson , friends have claimed
Rishi Sunak and Akshata Murty have opted to stay in the smaller flat above No10 that they refurbished at their own expense when he was Chancellor
Despite the Tatler profile stressing Mr Sunak and Ms Murty want a less flashy home, it says they have 'velvet sofas' in 'jewel colours' and 'opulent' curtains in the historic property
Middle-class families are hammered in 'benefits trap':...
Tory turmoil made UK a 'laughing stock' in 2022 as country...
Ms Murty - the daughter of an Indian billionaire who met Mr Sunak at university in the US - has not given an interview, but is said to have authorised friends to speak to the publication.
She is portrayed as an ardent Brexiteer who loves Yorkshire and wants Downing Street to 'open up'. 
John Challis, an upholsterer from Mr Sunak's Richmond constituency in North Yorkshire who has been employed by the couple, described how George Osborne's 'very tired' furnishings in the No10 flat were updated. 
'We made long, fully interlined curtains for all five windows overlooking the garden, hand-pleated and held back with heavy co-ordinating tassels in red, gold and the ivory of the damask,' he said. 
'The ornate cornicing was hand-gilded and a rug was commissioned to almost fill the room. Akshata was very involved and keen to see how things are made. She is also not afraid of getting stuck in and helping either.'
There are 'opulent curtains in the entrance areas' and window seats in most rooms of the flat. 
'Most of the sofas are velvet, in jewel colours, and the cushions also became a work of art,' Challis added.
Ms Murty is said to be intent on bringing 'more of the north to Downing Street'. 
Allegra Stratton, Mr Sunak's ex-spin doctor and the wife of James Forsyth, his new political secretary, said: 'Yorkshire has looked after Akshata.' 
She added: 'Over the summer, during the first leadership campaign, it was bruising for her, and the entire family hunkered down in the constituency, and it put its arm around them.'
:: The February issue of Tatler is on sale from Thursday, January 5
Mr Sunak and his wife in Downing Street last month
Boris and Carrie Johnson followed the example of other recent premiers by using the larger apartment over No11
Share or comment on this article: 
Rishi Sunak and heiress wife Akshata have 'less glitzy' flat
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
