How 'champagne socialist' Gary Neville has raked in £70m lecturing on workers' rights | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil: How reclusive paedophile battled neck cancer and was fed through a tube at his £5m home after shameful fall from grace
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey is slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as he clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
IOPC calls for a new national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation - in the wake of Wayne Couzens 'failures'
From giant letters H and S to the curious 'ERP': The hundreds of fading signs dating back to WWII that exist around Britain - but do YOU know what they mean?
Grenfell fire investigator who killed himself by overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT commit suicide, inquest rules
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Rishi Sunak denies 'dithering' over Suella Braverman's fate as Home Secretary STILL waits to hear if she will face sleaze probe on 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial tells how his life was 'destroyed' and demands answers over why it took so long for justice - as real killer is jailed for 29 years
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as cause of death is revealed
Chilling moment paedophile Rolf Harris warned children about 'touching' and 'yes feelings and no feelings' in 'Kids Can Say No' sex abuse educational video filmed during period of his offending in 1980s
How 'champagne socialist' Gary Neville has raked in £70m while using his platform as TV pundit to lecture on workers' rights (but not all the staff at his own Manchester hotel are happy)
Neville - an outspoken Tory critic - joined the Labour Party this year
He likened the treatment of nurses to Qatar's approach to migrant workers
Online reviews by staff at his Hotel Football make complaints about conditions 
One said: 'If you love being overworked... you've found your calling'
When he was a player he was part of a group of stars accused of avoiding tax
Martin Robinson, Chief Reporter For Mailonline
 15:43, 19 December 2022 
 17:15, 19 December 2022 
 has made £70million from football and up to 60 business interests but some staff at his Manchester hotel claimed they were overworked, underpaid, underappreciated and 'not treated equally' by 'difficult management', MailOnline can reveal today.
The millionaire, 47, a member of the 
, lectured millions watching the World Cup Final about workers' rights and compared the treatment of 
 staff to the migrant workers who built the stadiums in 
, where up to 6,500 died in 11 years.
But while using his platform on TV to present himself as a people's champion, online comments from some of Neville's past and present employees suggest he may need to improve working conditions for his own staff.
One former worker at his Hotel Football said: 'If you love being overworked and underappreciated then you've found you calling.'
They added: 'Management only interested in turning a profit and don't really care how they achieve this.' 
One waitress said it was an 'unfair' place to work, adding: 'I didn't feel welcome in the team and management was not treating everybody equally.' She said there were no positives about working there.
Gary Neville, who denies he is a champagne socialist, spoke out about workers' rights. But MailOnline can reveal that some of his own staff have felt badly treated over pay, overtime and equality
This former waitress at Hotel Football, owned by Gary Neville, described being treated unequally by bosses in a one-star review on the website Glassdoor
On the Indeed website, some workers said it was a bad place to work where staff were 'overworked and underappreciated' 
Rishi Sunak tells Gary Neville to stick to football as ITV...
Outrage at Gary Neville's World Cup rant over strikes...
DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Now strikes may be a matter of life or...
England CONFIRM Gareth Southgate is staying on as manager...
ITV pundits Roy Keane, Gary Neville and Ian Wright name...
Rishi Sunak tells Gary Neville to stick to football as ITV pundit is reported to Ofcom 
Rishi Sunak today told Gary Neville to stick to football because ITV viewers didn't tune in to the World Cup final to hear him lecture on politics  - as Ofcom considers an investigation after receiving complaints about the Labour supporting ex-footballer.
Neville triggered outrage yesterday when he used ITV's World Cup final coverage to liken the government's treatment of nurses to the Qatari regime's approach to migrant workers, many of whom died building the tournament's stadiums.
Neville, 47, claimed the conditions for striking nurses and railway workers in the UK were like those faced by Qatar's huge foreign labour force. Up to 6,500 migrant workers perished in the 11 years the Gulf state spent preparing for the World Cup.
But the Prime Minister today defended the Government's record. He said: 'I think when most people are tuning in to watch Gary Neville they want to hear about the football and watch the football. They don’t want to discuss politics.'
 Ofcom told MailOnline that it has received complaints from viewers. A spokesman said: 'We are assessing the complaints against our broadcasting rules, but are yet to decide whether or not to investigate.'
Neville told ITV viewers: 'We should detest low pay, we should detest poor accommodation and working conditions. We can’t have people being paid an absolute pittance to work. It shouldn’t happen here [in Qatar]. But it shouldn’t happen with the nurses in our country either where our nurses are having to fight for an extra pound or two pounds'. 
Today he laughed off claims he was the 'definition of a Champagne socialist' and refused to apologise.
Several people who worked at Neville's Hotel Football in Manchester criticised working conditions at the flagship business, which he co-owns with Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes, Nicky Butt and Phil Neville.
Earlier this month a waitress at the Old Trafford hotel vented her anger on the Glassdoor website - an online forum where former employees anonymously review companies and reveal their pay. She said in her two-star review of the business that the cons of the job were the pay, long hours, difficult management and no progression. 
In 2019, a 'current employee' on the Indeed website declared: 'If you love being overworked and underappreciated then you've found your calling'. 
'Typically understaffed and overworked. Training is non existent. Always work over my contracted hours and never get overtime pay, I was told to take time in lieu but that's impossible when there are no staff to cover that', they said.
In another review entitled: 'Amateurs and greedy', an anonymous worker wrote: 'Senior management is more concerned about cutting costs rather than generating money, providing a good service and good working conditions. Not a good employer.' 
Hotel Football's overall rating is 3.6 out of 5, and has some positive reviews. Several workers praised 'good hourly pay' and 'flexible hours'.
Manchester United, which is across the road, has a rating of 4.2. MailOnline has asked Hotel Football to comment.
Neville has long dismissed suggestions he was a 'woke Leftie', and described himself as 'a capitalist' and 'entrepreneurial businessman who likes to make a profit'.
Gary Neville owns Hotel Football with Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes, Nicky Butt and Phil Neville
He ranted about strikes and workers' conditions in the UK while appearing as a pundit on ITV before the World Cup final in Qatar
Reports from last year indicated that his financial assets totalled £70million. Records from Companies House show that he has been involved with 60 businesses.
According to his LinkedIn profile, the Salford City FC co-owner is 'currently working on St Michael's, a £200million development project in Manchester city centre'.
BBC pundit: Gary Neville was WRONG to bring his politics to the World Cup final 
Gary Neville was wrong to give his opinion on workers' rights during the World Cup final, according to a former colleague.
Asked if Neville should have expressed his political views, former England footballer Danny Mills told GB News: 'I don't think so.
'You have a platform as a pundit. As a person on telly you clearly have opinions, but there are people better read, better versed to understand all the situations in this.
'We saw it at the start of the World Cup with the BBC not showing the opening ceremony on the main channel. And then a bit of a monologue from Gary Lineker.
'It's okay to have opinions, but if you want to do that, do it on your own social media channels because I think you have more influence.
'When you start getting into mixing politics right across the board, I think it's very, very dangerous.'
He has been investing in property since the economic crash in 2008, and his business interests have included hotels, restaurants, film production and eco schemes.
But there have also been claims of hypocrisy over his taxes.  
In 2004 the Observer named Neville, David Beckham, Sol Campbell, Steven Gerrard, Ashley Cole, Joe Cole and Nicky Butt as stars who were avoiding tax on cash from TV advertising.
In 2006 the same newspaper described him as 'England's rather unglamorous right-back' with £559,000 of assets in his private firm, Tiger Sports Management.
Tax experts claimed that this allowed footballers to ensure their image rights payments were made to a company rather than them directly. This allowed them to be subject to corporation tax levied at between 21 per cent and 28 per cent, rather than subject to income tax, which was 40 per cent then.
At the time Chancellor Gordon Brown was asked to close the loophole that allowed the England players to legally avoid tax.
And in 2010 he was among 20 top players written to by HMRC over tax arrangements linked to image rights, according to The Times, amid claims the loophole allowed players to avoid paying an estimated £100million a year in tax.
The letters advised the players that their affairs were being investigated and that they might need to hand over copies of accounts, contracts, receipts and other documents to HMRC. It is not clear whether Neville or Manchester United were obliged to pay any extra tax.
MailOnline asked Neville's agent to comment - including on the outcome of the HMRC investigation.
There have also been other scrapes since Neville left professional football and moved into business, setting up hospitality businesses. As well as co-owning the 133-room Hotel Football, he has also developed commercial properties and homes in the north-west.
In 2017 it emerged that he had been secretly buying property and developing it under other names, claiming it was easier to get planning permissions.
In an interview in the latest edition of Business Life, the British Airways in-flight magazine, he said he secretly bought four buildings in Manchester in this way.
He said: 'It's quite interesting that when I buy under a different company name or request planning permission under a different name actually the planning permissions don't tend to attract the same sort of attention.'
In 2019 he was linked to a firm accused of mis-selling timeshares to British holidaymakers.
The finance watchdog began investigating after £47million in loans were given to Britons looking to buy timeshares in Malta that were part-owned by Neville.
Neville with Labour Party Shadow Culture Secretary Lucy Powell at the annual Labour Party conference in Liverpool in September
Former England footballer Gary Neville (left) was linked to a firm accused of mis-selling timeshares to British holidaymakers. Customers were told other 'United players', including Ryan Giggs (right), part-owned the properties they were investing in 
Customers claim they were told 'United players' including Ryan Giggs owned the properties they were investing in and were given loans from Barclays to repay the money.
But the loans were brokered without the conditions being made clear and without the 'proper credit checks', a hearing of the Upper Tribunal of the Tax and Chancery Chamber was told.
Neville became a non-executive director of a company called Island Hotels Group Holdings in 2009 after he and Giggs invested 1.1million euros each in the company.
He bought a property on the island in 2000 after 'falling in love with it' and was appointed an ambassador for Maltese tourism the year after.
He told The Times of Malta: 'It is an honour to be connected so closely with Malta. Malta is very close to the heart.
'Malta has wonderful hotels and restaurants. I have seen drastic differences in 15 years during which the island has attracted different types of visitors.
The service here is improving and I believe there are great things ahead for Malta.'
The group Neville was involved in owned 50 per cent of the Golden Sands resort and 50 per cent of another company called Azure Services Limited, which marketed the timeshares.
He resigned from the Island Hotels role in 2015 as it prepared to be taken over by another Maltese firm.
Share or comment on this article: 
How 'champagne socialist' Gary Neville has raked in £70m lecturing on workers' rights
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
