Rishi Sunak vows to work 'night and day' to get Britain back on track in speech | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Prince Harry loses latest legal challenge against Home Office after it refused to let him pay for Met Police to act as his personal security because its officers 'are not guns for hire'
Moment furious motorist attacks Just Stop Oil eco-zealots as he pushes them to the ground before police officers swoop in and handcuff HIM during another slow-march protest through capital
Wrong again! IMF finally admits Britain WON'T go into recession this year as it upgrades forecast AGAIN - after Jeremy Hunt warned it had been far too gloomy
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Hundreds outraged by woman's 'rude' and 'inconsiderate' act on three-hour flight
Row over Blur singer Damon Albarn's 'intrusive' eco-friendly heat pumps outside his Devon farmhouse as frontman installs a second box near public footpath 'before being granted planning permission'
The best places to stay in the world: Scarborough B&B is named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
Is the axe hanging over Suella Braverman? Rishi Sunak gathers Cabinet as he mulls Home Secretary's fate with 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Wife whose husband always flies first class but makes  her and their children sit in economy asks if she should divorce him
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' and says Phillip Schofield was 'entitled to a better send-off' from This Morning
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
Is ITV about to make a 'clean break' with Phillip Schofield? Axed star 'could be eased out after Soap Awards' - with Dermot O'Leary, Rylan Clark and Alison Hammond expected to help 'star host' Holly present This Morning
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
The £15 loaf of sourdough that 'helps you sleep, boosts your immune system, lowers your blood pressure and cuts your stress'
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
New ITV drama Maryland makes viewers break down in tears within MINUTES - as fans claim 'no one is more moving' than Suranne Jones
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Cardiff estate turned into a 'warzone' after two teens died in e-scooter tragedy: Workers clear streets as police hit back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
Rishi's New Year push fuels Tory civil war: PM unveils 'five promises' on NHS, cost-of-living and Channel migrant crisis in first big speech since entering No10 - but Boris ally Nadine Dorries blasts premier for dumping other policies
Rishi Sunak has made a keynote speech to launch a political fightback in 2023
The PM set out five promises for voters to judge him by over the coming year 
Include growing economy, halving inflation and tackling Channel migrant crisis 
Mr Sunak said he wants everyone to study maths until at least the age of 18
But the Conservative infighting that dominated 2022 rears its head again today
James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline
 14:08, 4 January 2023 
 14:08, 5 January 2023 
 vowed to work 'night and day' to restore 'optimism, hope and pride in Britain' today in his first big speech as PM.
Trying to get on the front foot in 2023 amid a crippling wave of strikes, Mr Sunak acknowledged the massive pressures facing hospitals and said he was taking 'urgent action' to protect services.
He also slammed 'misinformation' from unions over strikes, and said the government will shortly lay out its next move. 
The PM spelled out five promises for voters to judge him against this year - including that 
 will be halved to tackle the 
, and the Channel migrant crisis will be eased.
He also committed to grow the economy, reduce debt and - perhaps the toughest test - cut NHS waiting lists. 
But despite hoping for a fresh start in the New Year, the Tory infighting that dominated 2022 reared its head again today as Mr Sunak was slammed for dumping a series of Boris Johnson's flagship policies.
Former Cabinet minister Nadine Dorries, a staunch ally of the ex-PM, was angered by the revelation that 
She also accused Mr Sunak of having ditched Mr Johnson's 'levelling up' agenda, launched a fresh tirade against the PM's delay to social care reforms, and highlighted reports that the Government is about to backtrack on a promise to scrap EU laws by the end of this year.
'Three years of a progressive Tory government being washed down the drain,' Ms Dorries said.
She warned it would be 'impossible' for the Tories to face voters at the next general election and expect them 'to believe or trust our manifesto commitments'.
Allies of Mr Sunak's predecessor, Liz Truss, have also this week been making clear their anger that he has ditched her proposals for a radical childcare overhaul. 
Ms Dorries' outburst came shortly before Mr Sunak set out his five pledges for the year ahead in his first major speech since entering No10.
The PM said he hoped he was already starting to earn people's 'trust' after replacing Ms Truss in October.
'These five promises are the people's priorities,' he said. 'We will halve inflation, grow the economy, reduce debt, cut waiting lists, and stop the boats.'
In a nod to the unrest on his own blue benches, Mr Sunak said that 'as soon as we can' the government would 'reduce the burden of taxation on working people' - without making any concrete pledge.  
He announced his 'personal' ambition for everyone to study maths until at least the age of 18, saying that improving education was as close as it gets to a 'silver bullet' in policy terms.
The intervention came after the premier was given a glimmer of hope in a new poll. 
 had an eye-watering 20-point lead overall, the Redfield &amp; Wilton research found that Mr Sunak has leapfrogged 
 as the public's preferred PM.
The Tory leader was the choice of 38 per cent, compared to 36 per cent for Sir Keir - in an apparent sign that he is stabilising the government following Ms Truss's disastrous premiership.
Rishi Sunak vowed to work 'night and day' to restore 'optimism, hope and pride in Britain' today in his first big speech as PM 
Downing Street tweeted out the five promises Mr Sunak asked to be judged on today
The premier has been given a glimmer of hope in a new poll. Although Labour has an eye-watering 20-point lead overall, the Redfield &amp; Wilton research found that Mr Sunak has leapfrogged Keir Starmer as the public's preferred PM
Man suffering from acute appendicitis had to sleep in his...
National Hell Service: Wife dies 'after 16-HOUR ambulance...
Rishi Sunak's 'big idea' of compulsory maths to the age of 18 is mocked as a 'distraction' 
's 'big idea' of making maths compulsory to the age of 18 was mocked today as a 'dead cat' to distract from the 
 crisis and winter of discontent.
In his first major speech as PM this afternoon, Mr Sunak promised to equip children for the 'jobs of the future' by combating high rates of innumeracy in the UK.
Young people will be forced to take 'some form' of maths delivered either through new courses or existing qualifications such as A-levels, T-levels and Core Maths. For most the drive is likely to involve practical skills rather than algebra.
But Opposition parties dismissed the initiative as 'empty' and an 'admission of failure' - while 
 urged Mr Sunak to focus on tackling illegal immigration instead.   
Nigel Farage swiped that 'quadratic equations' would not help fix 'broken Britain'. 
He suggested that 18-year-olds should play darts instead to brush up on numeracy skills. 
In his speech, Mr Sunak said: 'I want to make five promises to you today. Five pledges to deliver peace of mind. Five foundations, on which to build a better future for our children and grandchildren.
'First, we will halve inflation this year to ease the cost of living and give people financial security. Second, we will grow the economy, creating better-paid jobs and opportunity right across the country. Third, we will make sure our national debt is falling so that we can secure the future of public services.
'Fourth, NHS waiting lists will fall and people will get the care they need more quickly. Fifth, we will pass new laws to stop small boats, making sure that if you come to this country illegally, you are detained and swiftly removed.
'So, five promises – we will: Halve inflation, grow the economy, reduce debt, cut waiting lists, and stop the boats.
'Those are the people's priorities. They are your Government's priorities. And we will either have achieved them or not.
'No trick… no ambiguity… we're either delivering for you or we're not. We will rebuild trust in politics through action, or not at all. So, I ask you to judge us on the effort we put in and the results we achieve.'
Mr Sunak signalled a renewed focus on tackling the 
He is bringing forward an 'urgent care recovery plan' later this month, coupled with a recovery plan for primary care to improve access to GPs.
But the PM warned the country cannot afford the double-digit pay rises demanded by militant union bosses, and also confirm plans for 'tough' measures to limit strike disruption.
The strategy for building a better Britain includes plans to make maths compulsory to the age of 18 in order to boost skills and productivity.
He said the UK is an outlier and it is time to 'reimagine our approach to numeracy' – warning that the current approach to maths is 'letting our children down'.
Mr Sunak said: 'This is personal for me. Every opportunity I've had in life began with the education I was so fortunate to receive.
'And it's the single most important reason why I came into politics: to give every child the highest possible standard of education.
'Thanks to the reforms we've introduced since 2010, and the hard work of so many excellent teachers, we've made incredible progress.
'With the right plan – the right commitment to excellence – I see no reason why we cannot rival the best education systems in the world'.
Mr Sunak conceded that introducing maths to 18 will take longer than the two years remaining in this Parliament.
He emphasised the importance of numeracy, stressing 'our children's jobs will require more analytical skills'.
Can Rishi Sunak keep his promises for this year? 
Inflation on the headline CPI measure is running at around 11 per cent -more than five times the Bank of England's 2 per cent target.
However, economists expect it to subside in the second half of the year, meaning the goal is not as difficult as it might initially appear.
The Bank of England and other forecasters believe the country faces a long, if fairly shallow, recession. 
Almost all suggest there will be a contraction in GDP over the year as a whole.
However, the central predictions are that marginal growth will return in the fourth quarter, which might allow Mr Sunak to say the target has been reached.
This was the rule set out by Chancellor Jeremy Hunt at the Autumn Statement over the medium term. 
The OBR concluded that the aim is on track to be met thanks to swingeing tax rises and spending curbs. Debt is expected to peak as a proportion of GDP in the 2025-26 fiscal year, before falling back - although keeping the finances on track might not be an easy task. 
This might be the most difficult of the promises to keep, with expectations that waiting lists could grow even further in coming months, and the NHS struggling to turn extra funding into higher output.
Pass laws to stop Channel migrant boats:
A commitment that is seemingly carefully limited so it can be achieved. Mr Sunak did not promise to stop small boats altogether, only that he will push ahead with the plan he has laid out to tackle the issue.
However, unless the numbers crossing the Channel are seen to reduce claiming he has technically met this goal might not pass muster. 
In a series of stringing tweets Ms Dorries castigated the change and Mr Sunak's wider political direction, accusing him of spurning changes made under Mr Johnson, her close friend and ally
'Right now, just half of all 16 to 19-year-olds study any maths at all. Yet in a world where data is everywhere and statistics underpin every job, our children's jobs will require more analytical skills than ever before.
'And letting our children out into the world without those skills, is letting our children down'.
The Government does not envisage making maths A-level compulsory for all 16-year-olds.
Ministers are instead exploring existing routes, such as the Core Maths qualifications and T-Levels, as well as more innovative options.
Whitehall sources said the NHS crisis has risen to the top of Mr Sunak's domestic agenda in recent weeks and he is now involved in intensive daily meetings to 'get under the bonnet' of the NHS.
'It is something he will be very focused on this month, and probably next month as well,' a source said.
Dorries fury as sale of Channel 4 is dropped 
Plans to privatise Channel 4 have been dropped, it was revealed today, sparking a furious political row,.
 Michelle Donelan has written to Prime Minister 
, recommending the Government drops a plan to sell off the broadcaster devised under his predecessor 
She said that the sale was 'not the right decision' and would adversely affect independent production firms at a time when the economy is under pressure.
But the revelation by Global's The News Agents podcast was slammed by Ms Donelan's predecessor 
, who led the drive for privatisation.
In a series of stringing tweets she castigated the change and Mr Sunak's wider political direction, accusing him of spurning changes made under Mr Johnson, her close friend and ally. 
 'Three years of a progressive Tory government being washed down the drain. Levelling up, dumped. Social care reform, dumped. Keeping young and vulnerable people safe online, watered down,' she said.
'A bonfire of EU leg, not happening. Sale of C4 giving back £2b reversed. Replaced with what?'
Turning to the NHS, Rishi Sunak said that 'something has to change', but he stressed that would not change the 'founding principles' of the health service.
'We will always protect the founding principles of an NHS free at the point of use. But what it does mean is an NHS where patients are in control with as much choice as possible, where we're comfortable with the NHS using more independent capacity, if that's what it takes to get patients quicker and better care,' he said.
'We all share the same objective when it comes to the NHS, to continue providing high quality responsive health care for generations to come. And that's what we're going to deliver. Our vision for change will revitalise every aspect of our lives, better jobs, stronger communities, world class education, an NHS built around patients.'
Mr Sunak spoke at length about family, calling it 'something that politicians struggle to talk about'.
'We live in a world today where family can and does take many forms. But whatever your family looks like, it doesn't matter. As long as the common bond is love. We shouldn't be shy about it.
'We need to support parents to manage the demands of modern workplaces without weakening the irreplaceable bonds of family life. And we're going to roll out family hubs to offer parents the support they need.'
Mr Sunak conceded that his vision for the country will not happen 'overnight'.  
'As well as peace of mind today, this afternoon I've also set out a vision for a better future for our children and grandchildren. Now we're not going to get there overnight, or even in this Parliament. But this is the journey we are on,' he said.
'And despite all the challenges we face, all the anxieties that people feel, I know we can get there. Others may talk about change, I will deliver it. I won't offer you false hope or quick fixes, but meaningful lasting change.
'I want people to feel something that they do not always feel today – a belief that public services work for them, and knowledge that if you work hard in the good times, the state will be there for you during the bad.'
Ambulances wait outside Portsmouth Hospital due to shortages of rooms as patients wait inside the vehicles for hours
Backlash at PM over jettisoning Truss's childcare shake-up 
 tried to see off a growing 
 revolt over soaring childcare costs today as he played up the importance of family.
The PM is under increasing fire over a decision to scrap a plan to reform pre-school care to help parents afford places and return to work. 
He has axed proposals outlined by his brief predecessor 
 to ditch mandatory staff-child ratios in nurseries, aimed at reducing overheads. 
Plans to extend free care for toddlers from 30 to 50 hours a week are also under review. 
Previous criticism was limited to supporters of Truss, but today backers of the PM himself urged action, including Education Committee chairman Robin Walker.
In a speech in east London this afternoon Mr Sunak insisted he was committed to improving the situation for hard-pressed families, saying 'we need to support parents to manage the demands of modern workplaces without weakening the irreplaceable bonds of family life'. 
Ending his speech, he said: 'I guarantee that your priorities will be my priorities. I pledge that I will be honest about the challenges we face. And I will take the tough but necessary decisions to ensure our great country achieves its enormous potential.
'I will only promise what I can deliver, and I will deliver what I promise.'
However, Mr Sunak's pledges risked being overshadowed by the Conservative civil war reigniting. 
After it emerged Culture Secretary Michelle Donelan has recommended dropping plans to privatise Channel 4, her predecessor Ms Dorries wrote on Twitter: 'Three years of a progressive Tory government being washed down the drain. Levelling up, dumped. Social care reform, dumped. Keeping young and vulnerable people safe online, watered down.
'A bonfire of EU leg, not happening. Sale of C4 giving back £2b reversed. Replaced with what?'
A second tweet hit out at the announcement on maths. 'A policy at some time in the future to teach maths for longer with teachers we don't yet even have to do so,' she wrote.
'Where is the mandate – who voted for this?'
The speech comes against a bleak backdrop of problems in the NHS following the pandemic. A string of hospital trusts and ambulance services have recently declared critical incidents as they struggle to deal with the combination of record backlogs and surging flu and Covid cases.
Some health chiefs have claimed delays are leading to 500 excess deaths a week.
Downing Street said ministers had been 'upfront' with the public that the NHS would face an 'extremely challenging winter' following the pandemic.
Mr Sunak's official spokesman said the PM was 'confident' that the health service had the funding it needed, but acknowledged that some people would face long delays for treatment.
'We expected to see backlogs and waiting times go up... that is what we are seeing play out,' said the spokesman.
'We are confident we are providing the NHS with the funding it needs to deal with these issues,' he added. Asked if the NHS is in crisis, he said it was 'an unprecedented challenge'.
Health Secretary Steve Barclay said the Government is focused on 'getting the people out of the hospital who don't need to be there' in order to 'speed up the ambulance handover delays'.
Mr Sunak's plans will involve a big focus on improving social care to make it easier to discharge elderly patients
Share or comment on this article: 
Rishi Sunak vows to work 'night and day' to get Britain back on track in speech
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
