Republican 'shadow' group slams Nancy Pelosi for Capitol Hill security failures | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Republican 'shadow' group slams Nancy Pelosi for Capitol Hill security failures ahead of the damning Jan. 6 committee final report
GOP report blames Pelosi for hindering security response at Capitol
Republicans put out counter report on January 6th
Comes ahead of Jan. 6th committee's official report
GOP report doesn't address Trump's role in insurrection 
Emily Goodin, Senior U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com
 15:45, 22 December 2022 
 16:39, 22 December 2022 
House Republicans released a counter report on the origins of the January 6th insurrection, blaming Speaker 
 for hindering the security response and arguing Capitol Police had inadequate staff and equipment on the day of insurrection.
, was released ahead of the 
, which is expected to come out on Thursday and to be 
The GOP findings focus on what they call 'political pressures' from Pelosi and her office that handicapped security officials in the Capitol. The report does not address whether Trump played in a role in inciting his supporters to march on the building.
House Republicans released a counter report on the origins of the January 6th insurrection, blaming Speaker Nancy Pelosi for hindering the security response
'Leadership and law enforcement failures within the U.S. Capitol left the complex vulnerable on January 6, 2021,' the report begins.
'The Democrat-led investigation in the House of Representatives, however, has disregarded those institutional failings that exposed the Capitol to violence that day,' it says.
 who were part of the GOP group originally appointed to the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack.
But they were pulled by House GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy after Pelosi refused to seat two of his picks - Reps. Jim Banks and Jim Jordan - citing their objections to Joe Biden's victory in the 2020 election.
Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff, who sat on the House January 6th committee, said their final report will address security concerns.
'There will be material in the report that we'll be releasing later this week on that very issue - on the nature of the intelligence that agencies have, the degree to which it was shared or not shared, the degree to which was acted upon or not acted upon, the coordination or lack of coordination among law enforcement. So those issues are addressed in our report,' he said earlier this week.
The Senate PASSES $1.65T spending bill AND short-term...
Hunter Biden hires top DC lawyer who represented Jared...
Jan. 6 Committee releases 34 testimonies from Trump...
'Ukraine is alive and well': Zelensky makes historic...
The official House committee released an executive summary of its findings on Monday, where it detailed actions by Trump and his allies to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election. 
 on charges of inciting insurrection, conspiracy to defraud the United States, obstruction of an act of 
, and conspiracy to make a false statement.
The GOP report, meanwhile, focuses on the intelligence gathering and security procedures ahead of January 6th, constraints on the House Sergeant at Arms, and communications between the House Sergeant at Arms and Pelosi staff.
While it does noteTrump's tweet late in the day on Jan. 6th asking the rioters to go home, it doesn't detail the hours of inaction on the part of the then-president, which was outlined in the public hearings held by the January 6th committee.
There is also little information on the activities of Republican Senator Mitch McConnell, who, at the time, was the leader in the Senate. Nor does it touch on communications between McConnell's office and the Senate Sergeant at Arms that day.
Pelosi is not the only official targeted in the GOP report.
Then House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving, the top security official in the House, is blasted for deferring to the speaker and for being distracted by other events surrounding January 6th - including the swearing-in of new members of Congress and the upcoming presidential inauguration.
'Irving carried out his duties in clear deference to the Speaker, her staff, and other Democratic staff,' the report states.
Irving resigned in the wake of January 6th.
House Republicans released their own report to counter that of the January 6th committee's official findings - above (from left to right) key GOP lawmakers Jim Banks of Indiana, Jim Jordan of Ohio and Kevin McCarthy of California
The House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack will put out its final report on the January 6th riot on Thursday
The Republicans argue that, on the House side, there was 'a pattern and practice of seeking and obtaining permission from the Speaker for all security decisions. This delayed the request for help from the National Guard.' 
Pelosi has repeatedly denied GOP allegations she was in charge of security for the complex and that she hindered any security actions on that day. In one of its final hearings, the Jan. 6th panel showed video footage of Pelosi working the phones that day, asking for National Guard and police from Virginia and Maryland to be sent to the Capitol. 
The speaker of the House is not responsible for Capitol Security. That is the pervue of the Capitol Police Board, which oversees the US Capitol Police and approves requests for National Guard assistance. 
One of the recommendations in the GOP report is to reform the Capitol Police Board for 'the separation of security decisions from politics.'
The report was compiled through public documents, news accounts, interviews with officials and from witnesses and USCP sources whose identities are protected for fear of retaliation.
It claims that there were also concerns about a 'perception problem' if the National Guard had been pre-set at the Capitol on January 6th, which then contributed to the slow decision to call them in after the riot started.
'The documents and communications show concerns about the public perception of military personnel at the Capitol and how the use of force by officers against violent protestors were well known among Irving, Democratic leadership, and USCP leadership,' the report states.
The report also took to task U.S. Capitol Police leadership for failing to train officers for such an event or give them the equipment they need. And it notes changes made in the intelligence-gathering divison of the agency that crippled USCP's ability to prepare for the insurrection. 
'The failure to limit the scope of the attack on January 6, 2021, was as much a management failure as an intelligence failure,' it says. 
'The USCP was set up to fail, and there have been scant signs of progress toward addressing these weaknesses.'
One of the final hearings of the January 6th committee shows footage of Democrats Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer on the day of the insurrection, calling for security help
It notes that a division chief at USCP changed the procedure so analysts no longer conducted proactive social media searches, which left them unaware of many of the threats circulating the internet.
Several agencies on Capitol Hill, including USCP, conducted their own internal investigations in the wake of January 6th and came up with new recommendations on procedures.
A bipartisan panel also recommended changes to the Capitol Police Board. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Republican 'shadow' group slams Nancy Pelosi for Capitol Hill security failures
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
