ANDREW PIERCE: What gives George Osborne the right to send the Elgin Marbles back to Greece?  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
ANDREW PIERCE: What gives the smuggest man in politics, George Osborne, the right to send the Elgin Marbles back to Greece?
Andrew Pierce for the Daily Mail
 22:22, 6 January 2023 
 22:37, 6 January 2023 
 prepared to speak last month at the launch party of his Pandemic Diaries at the Science Museum in 
, the chatter among guests was about his exploits in the I’m A Celebrity jungle.
 was in particularly garrulous mood, perhaps enjoying being one of the most famous faces in the room — Cabinet ministers who were invited couldn’t attend because they were on a three-line Whip for a vote in Parliament.
When Hancock started speaking a respectful hush descended, yet Osborne — in an open-necked shirt, and uber-cool £160 Cloudnova trainers — carried on talking. Loudly.
Oblivious or, even worse, indifferent to the glares of his fellow guests, he continued his conversation with Emily Maitlis the former 
Former Chancellor George Osborne was in particularly garrulous mood, perhaps enjoying being one of the most famous faces in the room — Cabinet ministers who were invited couldn’t attend because they were on a three-line Whip for a vote in Parliament
Ministers and staff racked up £4.2million bill for...
According to one politician guest, the former Chancellor, who was accompanied by his heavily pregnant fiancée Thea Rogers, was ‘oozing entitlement and patrician superiority. He had the air of a public school bully and, sadly, no one told him to shut-up’. Never a retiring sort, Osborne — who went to St Paul’s and joined the Bullingdon Club at Oxford University — has a renewed swagger in his step now. It appears he is once again — discreetly — operating the levers of power.
A few weeks ago, shortly before the Autumn Statement, he was photographed going into 11 Downing Street at the invitation of Chancellor Jeremy Hunt.
Now, as chairman of the British Museum, he appears to be on the verge of closing a deal with the Greek government which would see the return of the Elgin Marbles to Greece — and with it, the resolution of our longest-running cultural dispute.
The UK law prevents the British Museum from giving the marbles away, but he proposes to repatriate them as part of a ‘long-term loan’.
Initially, just a small proportion of the marble frieze scenes, plaques and statues would find their way to Athens, with Ancient Greek treasures on loan from Athens travelling the other way, among them a 2,000-year-old bronze statue of a horse and jockey.
The speed of this apparent deal — let alone the lack of detail about any agreement — has alarmed some commentators. Osborne was appointed chairman of the Museum last October. A month later, he began conducting secret meetings with the Greek PM over the repatriation of the masterpieces.
No public debate. Not even an announcement that the talks were taking place.
For decades, Greece has been demanding the return of the marbles. Made up of 17 sublime figures, they are part of a frieze that decorated the 2,500-year-old Parthenon temple on the Acropolis, and were made by great classical sculptor Phidias in the 5th century BC.
As chairman of the British Museum, he appears to be on the verge of closing a deal with the Greek government which would see the return of the Elgin Marbles (pictured) to Greece — and with it, the resolution of our longest-running cultural dispute
In the early 19th century, Lord Elgin, then British ambassador to the Ottoman Empire, acquired the rights to them, thanks to a firman — a royal decree — issued by the Sultan (Greece was at the time under Ottoman rule) and arranged their shipment to Britain.
Of course, this act of cultural vandalism was wrong. But at the time, the Parthenon had fallen into ruin and some of the marbles had been destroyed by neglect and war — a fate that the remaining treasures could all too easily have suffered had Lord Elgin not stepped in.
After a parliamentary investigation approved their move to Britain, they became a prime attraction in the British Museum where they have been beautifully preserved and freely available for all to admire or study.
Many argue that if they were now to leave Britain, Pandora’s box would be opened. There would be no end to the claims that would be made for restitution of the exhibits of great museums all over the world.
The British Museum insists that a deal with Greece would not ‘dismantle our great collection’ and that the museum would retain legal ownership of the marbles — even though the Greeks do not acknowledge British ownership.
Perhaps more importantly for Osborne, a deal would be a significant international feather in his cap. One senior source said: ‘It would be terrific for George if he is the museum chairman that gets the marbles or some of them, physically back in Athens for the first time in more than 200 years ... ’
It could also be the springboard for a role as an international statesman for which he yearns, such as managing director of the International Monetary Fund or president of the World Bank in Washington.
Osborne has long cultivated his image as a man of culture. An opera buff, he is a devotee of Wagner and he has a large art collection in his £5 million mansion in Notting Hill and his £1.6 million Georgian house in Bruton, an enclave in Somerset.
In the West Country, he’s on good terms with his neighbours Iwan Wirth and Manuela Hauser who have been described as the most powerful couple in the art world. They moved to Bruton in 2007 after selling their London home to David and Victoria Beckham for £30 million.
Osborne has long cultivated his image as a man of culture. An opera buff, he is a devotee of Wagner and he has a large art collection in his £5 million mansion in Notting Hill and his £1.6 million Georgian house in Bruton, an enclave in Somerset
They opened a branch of the Hauser &amp; Wirth gallery at a farm in Bruton. The restaurant at the gallery has people queuing for hours as it’s the place to see and be seen. Needless to say Osborne is a regular.
Nor has he ever been short of money to indulge in his art. The beneficiary of a multi-million pound family trust, courtesy of his family’s wallpaper business Osborne &amp; Little, he secured a lucrative partner’s post last year at the Mayfair Investment bank, Robey Warshaw.
Osborne joined the City advisory firm last April, giving up all his other commercial posts including £650,000 a year for working one day a week as an adviser to the fund manager BlackRock. It seems to have been worth it: just before Christmas, Robey Warshaw announced that a payout of £26.5 million for the year would be shared among four partners — of whom Osborne is one.
It was in his capacity as adviser to BlackRock that Osborne became heavily involved in the successful bid by Los Angeles Dodgers part-owner Todd Boehly last spring to clinch a £4.3 billion takeover of Chelsea Football Club from Roman Abramovich. Robey Warshaw was an adviser to the consortium fronted by Mr Boehly.
But despite Osborne’s riches, he has been angling to get back into his greatest love: politics.
Most former Chancellors would have opted for discretion and used the backdoor or the maze of corridors in Whitehall which offer a private route into Downing Street if invited for talks by Jeremy Hunt.
But not Osborne. For six years he was frozen out by Conservative leaders, first Theresa May and then Boris Johnson. Now, however, he is back and in the thick of it — and he wants the world to see it.
He was thrilled to read subsequent commentaries on the Autumn Statement referring to the ‘rhetoric of Osborne and the policies of Gordon Brown’ — no matter how such images made the hearts of many others sink.
For not everyone is as delighted with Osborne’s new-found influence as clearly he is. Some Tory MPs fear it is a worrying sign that Hunt — who, like Osborne, was an ardent Remainer — will try to water down Brexit.
When he was Chancellor, Osborne was the architect of the Treasury’s ‘Project Fear’ in which he menacingly warned that voting for Brexit would lead to a ‘severe shock’ and a £36 billion annual hit to the economy. It would lead to an emergency Budget with savage spending cuts and huge tax hikes, he claimed.
Needless to say, the ‘severe shock’ never happened and that emergency Budget never materialised.
As Matt Hancock (pictured with girlfriend Gina Coladangelo) prepared to speak last month at the launch party of his Pandemic Diaries at the Science Museum in London, the chatter among guests was about his exploits in the I’m A Celebrity jungle
Yet despite this, Osborne appears already to have spread his tentacles in Rishi Sunak’s Downing Street, with a network of influential friends in place. Rupert Harrison, who was Osborne’s chief of staff at the Treasury and is a portfolio manager at the investment giant BlackRock, is one of four figures Hunt has chosen for his new economic advisory council. Osborne is telling friends he had a major hand in the appointment.
Eleanor Shawcross, the head of the Number 10 policy unit, is one of his best friends. Oliver Dowden, the Cabinet Office minister and Rishi Sunak’s right-hand man, is also close.
When David Cameron was Prime Minister and Osborne was Chancellor, Dowden was the PM’s deputy chief of staff. His desk was equidistant between Cameron’s in No 10 and Osborne’s in No 11.
‘No wonder George is even more insufferable than usual,’ said one political source. ‘He’s got his people in the right places so he can whisper words of advice.’
What’s more, it appears that Hunt has been aping Osborne’s behaviour. In early December, Hunt hosted a summit of bankers in Downing Street to discuss the cost of living crisis, a tactic straight from the Osborne play book.
In 2016, after the Brexit vote, Osborne summoned banking chiefs to Downing Street and called for a ‘national effort’ to steer the country through what he predicted would be difficult times. Hunt’s language was remarkably similar after the summit.
Former Tory leader William Hague joked in a speech at that 40th birthday party that Osborne’s first law was to ‘work out, ahead of anyone else, who will be the next leader, stick to them like glue and become indispensable’.
Following Oxford University, Osborne worked at the Conservative Research Department and became William Hague’s speechwriter. After divorcing his wife, Frances Howell, the novelist and daughter of former Conservative Cabinet Minister Lord Howell, he became engaged to Rogers last year. She used to be his media adviser when he was Chancellor.
They have a son, Beau, and the new baby is due to arrive any day. They are expected to get married next year.
An Osborne admirer said: ‘He’s rich, he’s got a hugely well-paid job, and a young family. But he’s hugely excited by politics and thinks that, aged 51, he still has one big job ahead of him in public life like the IMF or the World Bank. You can’t rule out the idea of him having another go.’
All well and good. But the question is whether George Osborne’s increasing influence on British affairs — both political and cultural — befits someone who, however talented, is unelected. And whose views on Brexit were so spectacularly rejected by the British public.
Share or comment on this article: 
ANDREW PIERCE: What gives George Osborne the right to send the Elgin Marbles back to Greece? 
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
