Government defeats Keir Starmer's bid to charge VAT on fees | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rioters attack police on Cardiff estate after two teenagers die in e-scooter crash - but force hits back at social media rumours of a 'chase' and insist accident had 'already occured' when they arrived
Christian is banned from teaching for misgendering a trans pupil 'in first case of its kind in UK' - but he defiantly vows to appeal after saying he is 'devastated' by ruling
The £15 loaf of sourdough that 'helps you sleep, boosts your immune system, lowers your blood pressure and cuts your stress'
Hundreds outraged by woman's 'rude' and 'inconsiderate' act on three-hour flight
Blur frontman Damon Albarn upsets his parish council with a 'noisy eyesore' at his huge farmhouse in Devon
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' and says Phillip Schofield was 'entitled to a better send-off' from This Morning
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Outspoken BBC star Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
Men admit to the VERY petty reasons they start arguments with their girlfriends - including an excuse to storm out so they can party with their friends
The best places to stay in the world: Scarborough B&B is named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
UK flooded with dodgy boiler 'upgrade' pumps that make energy bills MORE expensive and don't meet regulations
Warning over shoulder surfing PIN thieves stealing information from smartphones - here's how to stay safe
How to fight back against water bill price hikes: Firms warn fees WILL go up this year as they pledge £10billion to tackle sewage crisis
Don't fall victim to a new wave of holiday scams this summer: Four ways your devices can be easily hacked in hotels - and how to protect yourself
Taking the fight to Putin: Russia's Belgorod region is hit by fresh drone strikes a day after pro-Ukraine rebels stormed over border - as they show off captured armoured vehicles on social media
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
Education Secretary Gillian Keegan points out 14 per cent of Labour MPs went to private schools - which is DOUBLE the UK average - as Government defeats Keir Starmer's bid to charge VAT on fees
Education Secretary highlights how 14% of Labour MPs were privately educated
Gillian Keegan hits out at 'politics of envy' over opposition's bid to end tax breaks
Labour claim putting VAT on independent school fees could raise £1.7billion
Greg Heffer, Political Correspondent For Mailonline
 17:15, 11 January 2023 
 23:17, 11 January 2023 
 today highlighted how more than one in 10 Labour MPs were privately educated as the opposition made a fresh bid to charge 
In a tetchy House of Commons debate, Ms Keegan pointed to research that showed 14 per cent of Labour MPs attended private schools - which she said was double the UK average.
The Cabinet minister accused Labour MPs of attempting to 'destabilise the sector that has provided the opportunities afforded to them' by pushing for the removal of tax breaks for private schools.
 this afternoon led his party's latest effort to overhaul the tax status of private schools.
The opposition have repeatedly claimed that putting VAT on independent school fees could fund a £1.7billion cash boost for the state education system.
Using Commons time allocated to his party today, Sir Keir forced a vote on whether a new parliamentary committee should be formed to consider Labour's policy.
This was defeated by 303 votes to 197, majority 106, as Tory MPs voted en masse to reject Labour's Opposition Day motion.
Education Secretary Gillian Keegan pointed to research that showed 14 per cent of Labour MPs attended private schools - which she said was double the UK average.
Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer led his party's latest effort to overhaul the tax status of private schools
The opposition have repeatedly claimed that putting VAT on independent school fees could fund a £1.7billion cash boost for the state education system
Research by the Sutton Trust has revealed that 29 per cent of all MPs elected at the 2019 general election attended independent schools
In the debate prior to the vote, Ms Keegan was scathing of Labour's 'ill-thought-through' policy, which she described as 'the politics of envy'.
'It’s pulling the rug out from under good independent schools, in a weakly-veiled, politically-motivated, economically incoherent policy that will not help what is in our mission to ensure every child can reach their potential,' the Education Secretary said.
Ms Keegan warned Labour's plan could lead to the closure of some private schools - or a reduction in bursaries - that would put more pressure on the state sector.
She also highlighted the educational background of many of the party's own MPs, as well as Sir Keir's schooling at Reigate Grammar School.
The Labour leader's secondary school became fee-paying while he was there, although Sir Keir was exempted from being charged.
It currently charges around £20,000-a-year for pupils.
Ms Keegan told the Commons: 'In fact, 14 per cent of Labour MPs elected in 2019 attended private schools, double the UK average.
'I will be interested to see which of those honourable members decide to vote to destabilise the sector that has provided the opportunities afforded to them.
'Now as someone who did not benefit from such a prestigious educational background, I stand here not focused on the less than 7 per cent of children who are attending independent schools, but rather much more focused on the 93 per cent who attend state funded schools as I did.'
Culture Secretary Michelle Donelan says Jeremy Clarkson can...
House of Lords could hold up Rishi Sunak's anti-strike laws...
Research by the Sutton Trust has revealed that 29 per cent of all MPs elected at the 2019 general election attended independent schools.
Some 41 per cent of Conservative MPs and 14 per cent of Labour MPs attended private schools, the analysis showed.
Labour's shadow education secretary Bridget Phillipson earlier told MPs that protecting tax breaks for private schools 'isn’t about aspiration for all of our children, it's about ensuring exclusive opportunities remain in the hands of a privileged few'.
She urged the Commons to support Labour's proposals, adding that asking the public to 'subsidise a tax break for private schools is inexcusable' at 'this time of economic uncertainty'.
Share or comment on this article: 
Government defeats Keir Starmer's bid to charge VAT on fees
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
