What time is the Rishi Sunak speech today on maths reforms, the NHS and more? | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Rishi Sunak vows to get a grip on NHS crisis in New Year push: PM will give first big speech TODAY trying to show he has a plan to revive UK's fortunes and boost maths skills - as poll finds he has leapfrogged Keir Starmer as 'best premier'
Rishi Sunak is making a keynote speech to launch a political fightback in 2023
He will pledge to bring forward an 'urgent care recovery plan' for NHS this month
The PM will say he wants everyone to study maths until at least the age of 18 
Mr Sunak is giving his keynote speech in London around 2pm this afternoon 
James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline
 08:41, 4 January 2023 
 13:53, 4 January 2023 
 will vow to get a grip on the 
 crisis and try to show he has a plan to revive the UK's fortunes in his first big speech as PM today.
Trying to get on the front foot in 2023 amid a crippling wave of strikes, Mr Sunak will acknowledge the massive pressures facing hospitals and lay out his broad approach to improving public services.
He will also bid to demonstrate he has a wider vision for Britain's future, announcing his ambition for everyone to study maths until at least the age of 18.
The premier has been given a glimmer of hope in a new poll. Although 
 has an eye-watering 20-point lead overall, the Redfield &amp; Wilton research found that Mr Sunak has leapfrogged 
 as the public's preferred PM.
The Tory leader was the choice of 38 per cent, compared to 36 per cent for Sir Keir - in an apparent sign that he is stabilising the government following the disastrous Liz Truss era.  
However, the Conservative infighting that blighted 2022 has already resurfaced, with Ms Truss's allies making clear their anger that Mr Sunak has ditched her proposals for a radical childcare overhaul.
Mr Sunak will set out his broad approach to resolving the pressure on the health service, including a renewed focus on tackling the delayed discharges clogging up hospital beds
The premier has been given a glimmer of hope in a new poll. Although Labour has an eye-watering 20-point lead overall, the Redfield &amp; Wilton research found that Mr Sunak has leapfrogged Keir Starmer as the public's preferred PM
Man suffering from acute appendicitis had to sleep in his...
National Hell Service: Wife dies 'after 16-HOUR ambulance...
Rishi Sunak's 'big idea' of compulsory maths to the age of 18 is mocked as a 'distraction' 
's 'big idea' of making maths compulsory to the age of 18 was mocked today as a 'dead cat' to distract from the 
 crisis and winter of discontent.
In his first major speech as PM this afternoon, Mr Sunak will promise to equip children for the 'jobs of the future' by combating high rates of innumeracy in the UK.
Young people will be forced to take 'some form' of maths delivered either through new courses or existing qualifications such as A-levels, T-levels and Core Maths. For most the drive is likely to involve practical skills rather than algebra.
But Opposition parties dismissed the initiative as 'empty' and an 'admission of failure' - while 
 urged Mr Sunak to focus on tackling illegal immigration instead.   
Nigel Farage swiped that 'quadratic equations' would not help fix 'broken Britain'. 
In his speech, Mr Sunak will signal a renewed focus on tackling the 
He will pledge to bring forward an 'urgent care recovery plan' later this month, coupled with a recovery plan for primary care to improve access to GPs.
The PM will warn the country cannot afford the double-digit pay rises demanded by militant union bosses, and also confirm plans for 'tough' measures to limit strike disruption.
But he will also set out his strategy for building a better Britain, including plans to make maths compulsory to the age of 18 in order to boost skills and productivity.
He will say the UK is an outlier and it is time to 'reimagine our approach to numeracy' – and warn that the current approach to maths is 'letting our children down'.
He is expected to say: 'This is personal for me. Every opportunity I've had in life began with the education I was so fortunate to receive.
'And it's the single most important reason why I came into politics: to give every child the highest possible standard of education.
'Thanks to the reforms we've introduced since 2010, and the hard work of so many excellent teachers, we've made incredible progress.
'With the right plan – the right commitment to excellence – I see no reason why we cannot rival the best education systems in the world'.
Mr Sunak will concede that introducing maths to 18 will take longer than the two years remaining in this Parliament.
He will put emphasis on the importance of numeracy, stressing 'our children's jobs will require more analytical skills'.
The Prime Minister will say: 'One of the biggest changes in mindset we need in education today is to reimagine our approach to numeracy.
'Right now, just half of all 16 to 19-year-olds study any maths at all. Yet in a world where data is everywhere and statistics underpin every job, our children's jobs will require more analytical skills than ever before.
'And letting our children out into the world without those skills, is letting our children down'.
The Government does not apparently envisage making maths A-level compulsory for all 16-year-olds and further detail will be set out in due course.
Ministers are instead exploring existing routes, such as the Core Maths qualifications and T-Levels, as well as more innovative options.
Whitehall sources said the NHS crisis has risen to the top of Mr Sunak's domestic agenda in recent weeks and he is now involved in intensive daily meetings to 'get under the bonnet' of the NHS.
'It is something he will be very focused on this month, and probably next month as well,' a source said.
The speech comes against a bleak backdrop of problems in the NHS following the pandemic. A string of hospital trusts and ambulance services have recently declared critical incidents as they struggle to deal with the combination of record backlogs and surging flu and Covid cases.
Some health chiefs have claimed delays are leading to 500 excess deaths a week.
Ambulances wait outside Portsmouth Hospital due to shortages of rooms as patients wait inside the vehicles for hours
Downing Street said ministers had been 'upfront' with the public that the NHS would face an 'extremely challenging winter' following the pandemic.
Mr Sunak's official spokesman said the PM was 'confident' that the health service had the funding it needed, but acknowledged that some people would face long delays for treatment.
'We expected to see backlogs and waiting times go up... that is what we are seeing play out,' said the spokesman.
'We are confident we are providing the NHS with the funding it needs to deal with these issues,' he added. Asked if the NHS is in crisis, he said it was 'an unprecedented challenge'.
Health Secretary Steve Barclay said the Government is focused on 'getting the people out of the hospital who don't need to be there' in order to 'speed up the ambulance handover delays'.
Mr Sunak's plans will involve a big focus on improving social care to make it easier to discharge elderly patients
Share or comment on this article: 
What time is the Rishi Sunak speech today on maths reforms, the NHS and more?
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
