CNN does not need a comedy hour - it already is a joke! Fox News' Greg Gutfeld mocks ailing network | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rioting thugs torch and overturn cars before hurling fireworks and paving stones at police after 'serious road crash' brings out hundreds onto the streets in night of violence on Cardiff estate
Christian is banned from teaching for misgendering a trans pupil 'in first case of its kind in UK' - but he defiantly vows to appeal after saying he is 'devastated' by ruling
Parkrun's gender self-ID lets men 'smash women's records to smithereens', former Olympic marathon runner claims
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Buckingham Palaces refuses to return remains of Ethiopia's 'stolen prince' who is buried in Windsor Castle grounds
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: He sang about a 'successful fella' who 'lives in a very big house in the country' but Blur frontman Damon Albarn has upset his parish council with a 'noisy eyesore' at his huge farmhouse in Devon
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' after Phillip Schofield's exit from This Morning while insiders believe presenter will make clean break from ITV
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
Signal failure: Free wi-fi on trains faces being scrapped to save money as the Department for Transport says operators need to 'justify the business case for it'
E. Jean Carroll seeks 'very substantial' damages for Trump's comments about her at CNN town hall with Kaitlan Collins - two weeks after winning $5million in defamation lawsuit
I'm an A&E consultant and this why I believe vapes should be be banned from shops
Plot to drive out equality chief who's standing up for women: Whistleblowers at human rights commission reveal boss is facing 'witch hunt' from trans lobby
How a gender battle engulfed Britain's equalities watchdog: Baroness faced backlash from left-wing MPs after publicly backing female-only spaces
ANDREW PIERCE: The 5ft heroine standing up to a campaign of hatred by the militant trans lobby
DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Who are the real bullies in trans row?
Montana signs bill defining sex as either male or female: Governor Greg Gianforte makes his state the fourth in the nation to declared gender binary in dozens of state documents
Sealed with a kiss! Sarah Ferguson's goddaughter ties the knot in a lavish wedding celebration in Ibiza
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
CNN does not need a comedy hour - it already is a joke! Fox News' Greg Gutfeld mocks ailing network's search for rival late night show and then thanks them for 'giving cable news a golden age of comedy'
Gutfeld claimed the 'smashing success' of his own late-night Fox show had forced bosses at CNN to look for 'a hit comedy show of their own'
Bosses at the famously progressive news networks have floated names such as Bill Maher, Trevor Noah and Jon Stewart to offer a satirical take on the news
The Fox Show last year drew a ratings average of 2.15m viewers - trumping vehement progressives such as James Corden and Stephen Colbert
Gutfeld joked no shake-up was necessary at CNN because hosts like Don Lemon, Chris Cuomo and Brian Stelter had already provided a 'golden age of comedy'
 20:10, 18 January 2023 
 21:20, 18 January 2023 
Fox News host Greg Gutfeld mocked 
 over its search for a comedy host - saying the network already is a joke.
Gutfeld claimed the 'smashing success' of his own late-night Fox show had forced CNN to look for 'a hit comedy show of their own.'
Bosses at the famously progressive news network 
 to offer a satirical take on the news - and compete with rival Fox's Gutfeld!.
The Fox show last year drew a ratings average of 2.15m viewers - trumping vehement progressives such as 
, who have seen ratings fall drastically in recent years. 
Gutfeld joked that no shake-up was needed at CNN because it had already provided cable news with the 'golden age of comedy.'
Fox News host Greg Gutfeld last night mocked CNN over its search for a comedy host - saying the network already is a joke
Bosses at CNN have reportedly floated names such as Bill Maher and Trevor Noah
'But isn't that the point, really? CNN was already funny and they went ahead and they ruined it,' he said. 'I'm talking, of course, about the golden age of comedy. Chris Cuomo, Don Lemon, Brian Stelter. Or as they're known in the business, the Three Stooges. Those were the days, right?'
He also argued that the network's effort was doomed to fail because good comedy relies on 'truth, not ideology.'
Sincerest form of flattery... CNN 'is mulling stand-up comic...
Urgent recall issued for common medication - after crucial...
Drivers reveal how their brand new Ford Rangers are 'LEMONS'...
Gutfeld cited the late comedian Norm MacDonald, who was fired by NBC after jokes about O.J. Simpson, suggesting that CNN would make strict rules for comedians that would stop them from being funny.
Following Simpson's acquittal in 1995, MacDonald said: 'Well, it's official, it's finally official. Murder is legal in the state of California.'
Gutfeld said: 'The audience roared because they knew it was true, but they also laughed because Norm was saying something you got the feeling he wasn't supposed to say.
'Rumors swirled that some execs at NBC didn't want him doing O.J. jokes. He was willing to break the rules to tell the truth. So how can a network do that while calling moms pregnant people? In order to be effective at comedy, you've got to rely on truth, not ideology.'
The rumored late-night foray by CNN is the latest in a series of 
sweeping changes to the network under new boss Chris Licht.
According to people familiar with the matter, the not-yet-named funnyman would be tasked with filling the hallowed 9pm time slot, previously held by Cuomo.
 CNN execs, led by Licht, have largely failed to fill the space left by Cuomo, 
who lost the gig more than a year ago after trying to help his brother 
 fight off a sexual harassment scandal. 
Viewing figures for the week of September 19-25 show liberal late night shows playing second-fiddle to new top dog Gutfeld!, which started airing weeknights at 11pm in April of last year. Many attribute the reduction to recent political rantings exhibited by hosts while on the air
CNN is reportedly considering hiring a comedian to host one of its struggling prime time hours - the latest in a series of sweeping changes to the network under CEO Chris Licht (pictured)
Meanwhile prime time host Lemon - who was openly hostile to Donald Trump throughout his campaign and presidency - has been shifted to the morning crew.
Licht's new era has resulted in the termination of several popular and notoriously progressive hosts, including John Harwood and Brian Stelter, along with their shows. 
Licht hinted at a desire to sign comedian Stewart in an interview last year with the New York Times.
Currently under contract with Apple, the 60-year-old satirist seems like an unlikely option - though the stellar ratings he brought The Daily Show for 16 years has likely piqued Late Night expert Licht's interests - especially when compared to ratings spawned by his successor Trevor Noah, and other more polarizing talking heads such as Colbert and former Daily Show correspondent Samantha Bee.
Speaking to The Times, Licht - who 
 including politics reporter Chris Cillizza - said he would love to bring on the former late night host, if possible.
Another, more promising prospect is Maher, a more no-nonsense progressive who despite his politics, manages to appeal to wider demographic than his more polarizing counterparts.
Maher, 66, currently hosts his long-running, eponymous program on HBO, which, like CNN, is now presided over by parent company Warner Bros.  
Puck reported that CNN chiefs were already in talks to begin airing some of Maher's weekly extra HBO segments on some of the station's various media outlets.
The new CNN boss has worked to tone down the often opinionated and emotional reporting from anchors like Lemon, who also was relieved of hosting duties for the network's underperforming primetime slot
Already familiar with using satire to improve viewership, Licht was brought on last February
 with the tall task of raising diminished viewership on the network.
That said, ratings slumps in late night have been widespread - and many have attributed it to liberal talking points exhibited by hosts while on the air. 
ffenders include Jimmy Kimmel, Jimmy Fallon, and James Corden - all vehement progressives who have seen ratings fall drastically in recent years, with nearly all at some point accused of being vehicles for the liberal mass media.
The rapidly shifting late night landscape, moreover, has made the success currently enjoyed by more conservative talkers - such as Greg Gutfeld - all the more stark.
The Fox Show last year drew a ratings average of 2.15M viewers - well over what liberal rivals Fallon, Corden, Colbert, and Noah, have drummed up in recent months.
The show, which went nightly in April 2021, is often lambasted by the left and adored by the right - but as liberals find themselves turned off by politically driven diatribes by their favorite TV talkers, shows like 
Gutfeld! have carved out a spot for themselves at the top of the heap in the battle for late-night supremacy.
Back in July, showrunners pulled notorious neoliberal comedian 
Samantha Bee's 'Full Frontal' on TBS, after Bee, a former correspondent on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, had trouble securing even 300,000 viewers to her show.
Then, in September, Stewart's replacement, woke comedian Trevor Noah, was bounced from the program after seven years also amid dwindling ratings.
Since assuming Stewart's spot at the once popular show, viewership has declined dramatically - with some saying the South African comic's heavy-handed soapbox rants triggered the slump. 
When Noah, 38, took over the show in 2015, its ratings sat at around 900,000 - but in recent months numbers have fallen below 400,000. 
For reference, Stewart's tenure saw viewing figures typically around 1.5 million an episode - which at points rose as high as 2.5million.
Meanwhile, it's hard to find a monologue on Colbert, Kimmel, or Seth Meyers without Trump, who has been out of office for nearly two years, being the topic of discussion. 
CNN hopes to move on from drama after the bombshell ousters of host Chris Cuomo and network boss Jeff Zucker (together above in 2014)
With that said, famously liberal Meyers, who took the Late Night mantle made famous by David Letterman and later diminished by Fallon back in 2017, has failed to hit the viewer mark in recent years.  
In 1984, Letterman averaged 2.5 million viewers. Today, Meyers has struggled to even meet the 800,000 viewer mark.
The situation at NBC is reportedly so dire that rumors are swirling that Meyers' show may be relegated either to the network's struggling streaming service, Peacock, or to notoriously leftist network arm MSNBC. 
Corden, meanwhile has also been 
and even worse ratings, also failing to hit 800,000 as he faces backlash from fellow comedians such as Ricky Gervais for stealing their material.
Across the rest of the late-night sphere, the ratings phenomenon is much of the same, with only Colbert, Kimmel, and Fallon surpassing the million mark, in second, third, and fourth place behind Gutfeld, respectively.
All are well below Gutfeld!'s impressive ratings haul of 2.5million views as of October, according to the latest Nielsen research.
The aforementioned shows' averages all dwindled well below ratings garnered in recent years, and have all been hosted for a number of years by increasingly outspoken - and left-leaning - hosts.
Share or comment on this article: 
CNN does not need a comedy hour - it already is a joke! Fox News' Greg Gutfeld mocks ailing network
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
