Best bits of BBC's newspaper review 'The Papers' as nightly show is axed in channel merger  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
CCTV 'shows police van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after force disputed claims that the death of two teenagers in 'chase' was to blame
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil: How reclusive paedophile battled neck cancer and was fed through a tube at his £5m home after shameful fall from grace
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey is slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as he clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial tells how his life was 'destroyed' and demands answers over why it took so long for justice - as real killer is jailed for 29 years
From giant letters H and S to the curious 'ERP': The hundreds of fading signs dating back to WWII that exist around Britain - but do YOU know what they mean?
Duchess of Edinburgh has made a secret trip to Iraq, Palace reveals, where she visited a girls school and had an audience with the President
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Rishi Sunak denies 'dithering' over Suella Braverman's fate as Home Secretary STILL waits to hear if she will face sleaze probe on 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Four arrested in connection with the hanging of an effigy of Vinicius Jnr from a bridge in January... with the Real Madrid star having again been subjected to racist attacks
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as cause of death is revealed
Chilling moment paedophile Rolf Harris warned children about 'touching' and 'yes feelings and no feelings' in 'Kids Can Say No' sex abuse educational video filmed during period of his offending in 1980s
Host Martine Croxhall saying she was 'gleeful' Boris had pulled out of race to be PM, and Clive Myrie calling Tyson Fury a 'd*******': Best bits of BBC's newspaper review 'The Papers' as nightly show is axed in channel merger
The look ahead at the follow day's newspaper splashed has now been axed
BBC presenters eulogised it in glowing terms after the final edition went out
Clive Myrie said it was a 'late night chat with the smartest people around'
Martin Croxall said the paper review had been likened to a 'Parisian salon' 
 15:12, 3 January 2023 
 15:24, 3 January 2023 
 News' The Papers review ends a production as well known for its off-beat moments as its analysis of current affairs.
While it often only lasted 15 minutes, the entertaining nature of the segment belied its late-night time slot.
And while presenter Martin Croxall's claims it was thought of as a 'Parisian salon where big ideas were discussed' may attract incredulity - many will miss its irreverent take on some news stories.
Seven years ago Clive Myrie was discussing 
's nomination for Sports Personality of the Year after the boxer had made homophobic remarks.
The segment had recently been in hot water after presenter Martine Croxall's Boris reaction
How DID Andrew Tate make his fortune? Ex-Big Brother TikTok...
Drug gangs are giving free £5 'Elf Bar' vape pens to...
How Andrew Tate's poison is spreading through UK schools:...
He checked his watch before declaring 'It's after the watershed.
'You cannot be a d******* and win Sports Personality of the Year.' 
Meanwhile more recently Croxall was memorably chastised by bosses after celebrating Boris Johnson had pulled out of the most recent Tory leadership contest.
She was taken off air for a short period after she reacted by saying: 'Well this is all very exciting, isn't it?' adding: 'Am I allowed to be this gleeful? Well I am.' 
The Papers held its final edition after it was axed in a channel cost-cutting drive.
A total of 70 BBC jobs are at risk and it has been reported 14 current presenting roles will be slashed to just five
Presenter David Eades was in the chair for the 18-minute segment, which had been a nightly look at the following day's physical newspaper editions.
He was joined over video call by Kevin Schofield, political editor of Huffpost UK, and Eleanor Langford, politics reporter at Politics Home, to give their view on stories.
The show was cancelled after the BBC announced it was merging the BBC News channel and the BBC World News channel to create one single 24-hour offering.
A total of 70 jobs are at risk and it has been reported 14 current presenting roles will be slashed to just five.
The final edition brought to an end of ten years of analysis of newspaper front pages and articles.
Former presenter Martin Croxall mourned its departure, adding: 'It was great fun to present BBC Papers when it started in 2013 along with Clive Myrie.
'We have Sam Taylor to thank for launching it when we moved from TV Centre.'
BBC presenters eulogised the programme as it aired its final ever segment late last night
Martin Croxall said the show - which discussed papers - had been likened to a Parisian salon
She added: 'Anne Ashworth always said it was like a Parisian salon where big ideas were discussed.
'Mihir Bose said he forgot we were on TV because it was so relaxed. Like sitting chatting at home.'
Clive Myrie added: 'End of an era tonight as the last edition of The Papers goes out on the BBC News Channel.
'At one stage this programme had more viewers than Newsnight and was regularly the most watched show on the Channel by a country mile.
'It was sort of about the papers, but I always saw it as a late night chat with the smartest people around, chewing the fat on the big issues.
'I had a whiskey, the guests had their tipple and we were chatting late night! I'm sure Martine Croxall imagined she had a very nice Pinot.'
Fan Jonathan Neil-Smith said on Twitter: 'Sorry to see it go. Was usually a refreshing conversation about current affairs stimulated by the front pages.
'Perhaps some creative thought needs to be given as to how to retain some of that stimulating input.
'Must have been quite economical given the use of on line facilities.'
The BBC said in a statement ahead of the closure of The Papers: 'As part of these changes there will be some scheduling changes and some items may move, or be provided in different ways across the BBC channels.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Best bits of BBC's newspaper review 'The Papers' as nightly show is axed in channel merger 
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
