            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Politics does make strange bedfellows: Ex-New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo has dinner with Trump’s former advisor Kellyanne Conway at an Upper East Side restaurant hours after Jan. 6 committee recommended her former boss face criminal charges
Andrew Cuomo and Kellyanne Conway were spotted dining together yesterday
The former Democrat governor and Republican advisor were once political rivals
No longer at the center of U.S. politics, both smiled as they left the restaurant
 12:26, 20 December 2022 
 15:05, 20 December 2022 
 and Kellyanne Conway have been spotted dining together at a New York restaurant.
 Andrew Cuomo, the former Governor of New York, and Republican 
 were once political rivals but were pictured exiting Italian restaurant Il Postino on New York's Upper East Side on Monday night.
 but now find their political careers somewhat over.
Andrew Cuomo did not comment when asked by reporters and photographers about the reason for the dinner as he left the restaurant at around 10pm.
The pair were pictured yesterday just hours after the 
Kellyanne Conway (front center) and Andrew Cumo (behind) both smiled at the cameras and reporters as they left the 61st street restaurant on Monday evening
Former Governor of New York Andrew Cuomo and ex-Trump advisor Kellyanne Conway leave Il Postino restaurant on the upper east side in Manhattan, New York, December 19
Harvey Weinstein is found GUILTY of rape and sexual assault...
Robert De Niro, 79, is seen emerging from his...
The pair both smiled at the cameras and reporters as they left the 61st street restaurant on Monday evening.
Kellyanne Conway exited the door first as the former New York governor followed closely behind.
Cuomo was once the face of the Democratic response to the Covid-19 pandemic, and had been praised by some for his actions in closing the state down in an effort to quell the virus and limit the amount of deaths.
At the height of the pandemic, he received plaudits for his calm and reasoned daily televised press briefings to update the citizens of New York on the virus that was sweeping through the state.
But after reaching great heights, and with some even suggesting he should be the Democratic Party's nominee for president in 2020, Cuomo faced a catastrophic fall from grace.
Following a growing list of sexual misconduct allegations, Cuomo resigned in August 2021.
The then-governor was alleged to have harassed 11 women in his proximity, many who worked for him in the state office in Albany, New York. He denied the allegations at the time.
In a deposition in November 2021 over his conduct in office and the sexual harassment claims that led to his resignation, Cuomo said that he often kissed people on the cheek, but he admitted that he couldn't 'rule out' having ever kissed staff on the lips.
In September, Charlotte Bennett, who was the second woman to come forward to make an allegation against Andrew Cuomo, 
, accusing the former governor of sexual harassment and attempting to smear her name when she went public with her original accusations.
The allegations also led to his brother 
. The network anchor was suspended and later fired last year after 'new information that came to light about his involvement with his brother's defense,' the network said.
Andre Cuomo did not comment when asked by reporters and photographers about the reason for the dinner as he left the New York restaurant at around 10pm on Monday
Kellyanne Conway exited the door first as the former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo followed closely behind, December 19
At the height of the pandemic, Cuomo received plaudits for his calm and reasoned daily televised press briefings to update the citizens of New York on the virus that was sweeping through the state. Pictured: Covid press briefing August 2021
But after reaching great heights, and with some even suggesting he should be the Democratic Party's nominee for president in 2020, Cuomo faced a catastrophic fall from grace. He is pictured with President Obama in May 2012
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo speaks during a news conference at New York's Yankee Stadium, on July 26, 2021
Chris Cuomo was suspended by CNN in December last year, after it emerged that he had not been transparent with his bosses and viewers about how much assistance he had given his brother, Andrew Cuomo
The sexual harassment claims against Cuomo surfaced after an inquiry as part of a U.S. Department of Justice investigation over his handling of the pandemic.
 into Cuomo's handing of COVID cases in state nursing facilities, according to The Washington Post. 
There were about 15,475 New Yorkers who died in nursing homes in 2020. 
The three-term governor eventually resigned before any possibility of an impeachment trial.
His dinner companion was also once at the center of U.S. politics.
Kellyanne Conway was pivotal in leading Trump to the White House in 2016. She became one of his most integral advisors in the Oval Office during much of the presidential term.
As one of the faces of his administration, Conway frequently precessed around the network news stations to defend the president as he frequently came under criticism.
She is perhaps best known for her 
 when she used the term 'alternative facts'.
Former adviser to President Trump Kellyanne Conway responds to a question from the news media following her testimony to the House select committee investigating the January 6 2021 U.S. Capitol insurrection at the O'Neill House Office Building in Washington, DC, USA, 28 November 2022
Kellyanne Conway recently sat for a deposition for the January 6 House committee that it investigating the insurrection and riot in the U.S. Capitol when President Trump left office
The House committee for which Conway sat for deposition yesterday recommended criminal charges for Donald Trump. The two are pictured in November 2016
President Trump in the Oval Office, White House on January 24, 2017. His advisors surround him, including Kellyanne Conway (top second left). Others looking on from left to right are then White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, White House Communications Director Hope Hicks, Senior Advisor Jared Kushner, and Senior Counselor Stephen Bannon
Conway was defending then White House 
press secretary Sean Spicer's pugilistic performance during his first trip to the press briefing room – when he insisted that Trump's audience had been 'the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration. Period.'
Conway at the time insisted that wasn't a 'falsehood,' but that Spicer 'gave alternative facts' to push back against commentators who all but called him a liar.
The former Trump advisor also recently sat for a deposition for the January 6 House committee that is investigating the insurrection and riot in the U.S. Capitol when President Trump left office.
She did not work in the White House on January 6th, 2021, having resigned in August 2020, but the Washington Post reported she called an aide who was with Trump that day and said she was joining others in urging the former president to tell his MAGA supporters to stand down.
She also told the aide that D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser's office called her, wanting her help in getting Trump to call up the National Guard to help subdue the rioters.
The House committee for which she sat for deposition 
In her book on working in the Trump White House, Conway acknowledged he lost the 2020 election to Joe Biden and said he was ill-served by the aides around him during that post-election chaos.
It is unclear why Kellyanne Conway and Andrew Cuomo were dining together after being such fierce political rivals, but both left the restaurant looking as though they had enjoyed the meal together.
Share or comment on this article: 
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
