Pele, George Weah and Andriy Shevchenko among political footballers | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
SAMI MOKBEL: Arne Slot will bring attacking, entertaining football back to Tottenham… but, Mr Levy, he likes to be in control of the ENTIRE footballing operation and is not afraid to jump ship
Vinicius Jnr's red card against Valencia is rescinded and Mestalla stand is ordered to be closed for FIVE matches, with the club fined £40,000 as Spanish FA FINALLY act on vile racist abuse of Real Madrid star
Operation FA Cup final: City and United assigned their own service stations amid fears of violence, with drivers warned about no-go zones as 160 coaches transport thousands to Wembley
Raheem Sterling one of a number of high-profile England stars whose squad place is in doubt as Gareth Southgate prepares to name his party for Euro 2024 qualifiers on Wednesday
Pep Guardiola insists he will NOT leave Manchester City this summer if they win the Treble, as the manager looks forward to the 'challenge' of defending their Premier League title
IAN HERBERT: As Steve Cooper saved Nottingham Forest, he had the class to embrace the club's past... do NOT be surprised if the cult hero succeeds Gareth Southgate as England manager
Arne Slot set to become new Tottenham manager, with talks to negotiate £10m Feyenoord exit set for Wednesday with Mino Raiola's heir Rafaela Pimenta - and his first target is a £40m star
Everton are among the few genuine giants of English football, writes lifelong supporter BRIAN VINER ahead of their final-day battle for survival. So now that the magic seems so irretrievably lost, fans are hurt, bewildered and angry
Dominant Man City are champions again but how can their Premier League rivals stop them next season? United need a striker, Arteta and Klopp must overhaul their midfields and Chelsea have to click
West Ham and Aston Villa are interested in Leicester's £50m-rated forward Harvey Barnes, with the England international unlikely to stay with the Foxes even if they avoid relegation
Cristiano Ronaldo rolls back the years with a powerful run and finish to seal stunning comeback for Al Nassr from 2-0 down to beat Al Shabab 3-2... as they remain three points behind leaders Al Ittihad with two games to go in Saudi Pro League
MIKE DICKSON: The bell's tolling for Rafael Nadal but don't despair... this may be the most thrilling French Open in years with Novak Djokovic and Iga Swiatek facing a host of contenders
Luton are planning to demolish and rebuild their Bobbers Stand in just ONE SUMMER if they secure promotion to the Premier League by beating Coventry in the play-off final on Saturday
Kim Min-jae has been nicknamed 'the monster' and hailed as the 'best centre back in the world' by his Napoli manager… after conquering Serie A the £56m-rated South Korean could soon complete a move to Man United
Bukayo Saka signs a new long-term contract at Arsenal with the winger set to stay at the Emirates until 2027... and he'll become one of the Gunners' highest earners on around £300,000-a-week
Wolves' saviour Julen Lopetegui will hold talks this week over summer transfer plans amid fears he could LEAVE... after hinting he was unaware of club's FFP problems when he joined last year
'Don't wear a white suit for Christ's sake!': Legendary ex-Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson takes a cheeky swipe at Liverpool during pep talk to Premiership finalists Sale
UEFA hold urgent talks on taking a stand against disgraceful racist abuse targeted at Real Madrid's Vinicius Jnr… despite a reluctance to act amid a feeling it is an internal issue for Spanish football
Is Vinicius Jnr ready to LEAVE Real Madrid after latest racism storm? What was chanted amid the disturbing scenes in Valencia? And could LaLiga do more? The big questions answered after young forward's fury
A Bristol City star Pep Guardiola described as an 'unbelievable player', an Italian midfielder Chelsea poached from Inter Milan and Man City's latest signing from Argentina: Six stars ready to light up the U20 World Cup in Indonesia
'I'm looking forward to going to battle with Davey again': Stuart Broad relishing bowling at 'fiery' David Warner in the Ashes after dismissing the Aussie opener 14 times... but says he needs to improve against Steve Smith and Marnus Labuschagne
England to field weakened attack against Ireland with pacemen Ollie Robinson and Jimmy Anderson set to sit out Lord's clash ahead of the first Ashes Test against Australia
ALVISE CAGNAZZO: Without Champions League football, EVERYONE at Juventus is for sale with free agent Adrien Rabiot and £80m Dusan Vlahovic both Premier League bound... but boss Massimiliano Allegri is too expensive to sack
Knollsy's going to Prague! West Ham's 'Angel of Alkmaar' is given a ticket for Europa Conference League final after club officials hailed his 'courage' in fighting off Dutch thugs
George Weah is Liberia president, Pavlyuchenko was elected for Putin's party WHILE playing for Spurs... and Sukur drove for Uber after being BANISHED! What happens when footballers get political
A number of prominent footballers have entered politics down the years
Ballon d'Or winner George Weah has become the president of his home country
Brazilian great Pele had a turbulent time as the nation's sports minister in 1990s
His countryman Romario once achieved the highest votes ever in Rio de Janeiro
Italian great Gianni Rivera served in his national and the European parliament
But Turkish legend Hakan Sukur ended up in exile after his foray into politics  
 15:43, 29 December 2022 
 16:56, 29 December 2022 
There are certain stereotypes about footballers but a significant number of them are civic-minded and want to make a difference to society.
A few down the years have even entered politics in an effort to improve the world around them. Having a huge profile from exploits on the football pitch can certainly help when it comes to winning votes.
Some players have risen all the way to lead their country, while others didn't manage to make much headway at all. Here's what happens when footballers get political…
Weah was one of the most gifted footballers to ever emerge from Africa, enjoying successful stints with leading European clubs Paris Saint-Germain and then AC Milan, as well as winning the Ballon d'Or in 1995.
Unfortunately, Weah never had the opportunity to play at a World Cup as his country Liberia wasn't strong enough to quality despite his best efforts.
His son Tim, who plays for the United States, has just ensured the Weah family name would be represented at a World Cup in Qatar.
Liberia's President George Weah (right) embraces his son, Tim, during the World Cup in Qatar
What a moment for the Weah family ❤️💙 
— U.S. Men's National Soccer Team (@USMNT) 
His dad, 56, is now the incumbent president of Liberia, having assumed office in January 2018.
He tried unsuccessfully to run for president in 2005 and failed in a vice-presidential bid in the country's 2011 vote before finally being elected with over 60 per cent of the vote in 2017.
Famous African footballers Didier Drogba and Samuel Eto'o attended his inauguration ceremony.
Weah is sworn is as Liberia's president alongside his wife Clar at his inauguration in 2018
Weah pictured with French president Emmanuel Macron on a state visit to Paris last month
Weah and Macron met with footballers Didier Drogba (front right) and Kylian Mbappe (front, second right) at the Elysee Palace in 2018
His first overseas state visit outside Africa was to meet French president Emmanuel Macron, with one meeting about sports development also attended by Drogba, Kylian Mbappe and FIFA president Gianni Infantino.
Weah hasn't had the easiest of presidential terms, having to deal with the Covid pandemic and he recorded a song seeking to raise awareness of the issue to a reggae beat.
He will be eligible to stand for a second term in Liberia's next election in October 2023.
George Weah, President of Liberia, watches his son play from the stands during Iran vs USA
The former striker is a legend in Brazilian football, having scored five times en route to their 1994 World Cup triumph in the United States and duly named the tournament's best player.
In total, he scored 55 times in 70 games for the Selecao and netted an incredible 690 club goals in a career that took him from Vasco da Gama to PSV Eindhoven, Barcelona and later Valencia in Europe.
After finally hanging up his boots in 2009, Romario turned his hand to politics by standing in Brazil's 2010 general election for the Socialist Party.
Romario pictured celebrating one of his goals during Brazil's successful 1994 World Cup 
That was unsuccessful but Romario raised his profile by agitating that the 2014 World Cup, staged in Brazil, was tainted by corruption and money laundering.
When he stood for the Senate again three months after the tournament, he was elected with the highest number of votes ever given to a candidate from Rio de Janeiro.
Since then, he's switched political party allegiance twice and in this year's elections he backed President Jair Bolsonaro but backed the wrong horse as the controversial Trump-like figure lost to Luiz Inacio 'Lula' da Silva.
Romario (left) entered politics after hanging up his boots and was elected to Brazil's senate
A famous name in Turkish football who scored 51 times in 112 games and scored the fastest goal in World Cup history in 2002 after the team reached the semi-finals.
Sukur went into politics after retirement in 2008 and was elected as a member of parliament in 2011 representing the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) led by Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
But he stepped down in 2013 following a rift between the government and the movement of the Islamic scholar Fethullah Gulen over plans to shut down exam prep schools.
Turkish legend Hakan Sukur waves a South Korean flag in appreciation in the 2002 World Cup
Sukur pictured in 2014 at an awards ceremony before he was banished from his homeland
Sukur continued as an independent MP but he crossed the ever more-dictatorial Erdogan in 2016. He was charged with 'insulting content against the president and his son' on Twitter, an offence which carried a potential four-year prison term.
Worse still, that same year he was charged with being a member of a terrorist organisation - the Gulen movement - and Sukur fled the country and went into exile in San Francisco.
He first tried to set up a cafe but gave up on this idea because 'strange people kept coming into the bar'.
He told the Welt am Sonntag newspaper in 2020 that 'now I drive for Uber and I sell books.' He added that Erdogan's government seized all his houses, businesses and bank accounts.
'I have nothing left, Erdogan took everything: my right to liberty, freedom of expression and right to work,' he said.
Sukur is pictured at the coffee shop he set up in San Francisco after fleeing from Turkey 
In the eyes of many, Pele was the finest player ever to kick a ball around. His foray into politics, however, was far less glorious.
In 1995, he was made an Extraordinary Minister for Sports in his Brazilian homeland and was determined to weed out corruption within football and break down vested interests.
However, he served for just three years and by 2001 was embroiled in a scandal in which it was alleged his sports company stole £450,000 of charity money.
Brazilian football legend Pele pictured during a visit to Costa Rica when he was sports minister
Unicef paid the funds for a benefit match in 1995 but it was never returned after the fixture was cancelled. Pele accused a business partner of mismanaging his company and stealing the money.
It led the Brazilian people to reassess his time as sports minister, wondering if rather than being an altruistic act, he simply did the job to further the interests of his own businesses.
Unicef moved to clear Pele of any wrongdoing and he has long been an ambassador for the organisation - but he never re-entered politics.
Pele's time in office was a turbulent one amid allegations of corruption over a charity match
Gianni Rivera was a member of the Italian national and European parliaments
Rivera was dubbed 'Golden Boy' during a fine playing career that saw him win two European Cups with AC Milan, for whom he made 658 appearances, and play in four World Cups for Italy.
The playmaker also helped his country win the European Championship in 1968 and many regard him as the best player Italy has ever produced.
His later life was devoted to politics, but only after he spent seven years as Milan's vice-president prior to Silvio Berlusconi's takeover.
Representing the Christian Democracy party he was elected into the Italian Parliament in 1987 and subsequently re-elected three times by the constituency of Milan.
He served as the under-secretary for defence and also served as a Member of the European Parliament between 2005 and 2009.
Another Milan legend, Ukrainian forward Shevchenko scored 173 goals in 296 matches for the Rossoneri and helped them win the Champions League in 2003.
He also captained Ukraine in their first-ever World Cup appearance in 2006 and played in Euro 2012, which they co-hosted with Poland.
Shevchenko entered the world of politics after his retirement in 2012, joining the Ukraine - Forward! Party ahead of parliamentary elections.
Andriy Shevchenko celebrates a goal for Ukraine during Euro 2012 - he unsuccessfully tried to make the leap into politics later that year
Despite his enormous profile in the country, the party won just 1.58 per cent of votes nationally and failed to win any parliamentary representation.
A month later, Shevchenko turned down the role of Ukraine's national team manager but he would eventually take the job in 2016, serving for five years.
He is now the vice-president of the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine.
Despite being a national hero, the party Shevchenko represented failed miserably at the polls
Best known for winning the Golden Boot after scoring seven goals for Poland at the 1974 World Cup, Lato certainly had a high profile in his home country.
In 2001, representing the Democratic Left Alliance, Lato was elected a senator for the Rzeszow region.
During his time in office, he was a member of the Committee on Emigration and Pole Abroad plus the Committee on Science, Education and Sport.
However, Lato was unsuccessful in a 2004 bid to become a MEP and then he fell short in the 2005 and 2007 Polish elections, leading to him becoming the Polish FA president in October 2008.
One ruthless act was his sacking of national team coach Leo Beenhakker after a 3-0 defeat by Slovenia effectively ended Poland's chances of qualifying for the 2010 World Cup.
'I don't want to make a rash decision but this cannot be changed. That was Leo's last game as coach,' Lato said on live television.
Poland great Grzegorz Lato, who won the Golden Boot at the 1974 World Cup, was a senator
Roman Pavlyuchenko because a deputy for Vladimir Putin's United Russia party not long after signing for Tottenham
In 2008, Tottenham spent £13.7million to sign Russian striker Pavlyuchenko from Spartak Moscow. To the surprise of almost everyone, the 26-year-old simultaneously entered politics.
A month after arriving in London, Pavlyuchenko was elected a deputy for Vladimir Putin's United Russia party in his home town of Stavropol.
With the party claiming 63 per cent of the vote, he secured a seat on the regional council. Details on how Pavlyuchenko would serve his constituents in southern Russia and play football in England were thin on the ground.
One Russian football commentator at the time suggested 'the international financial crisis affected his wages', meaning a second job was necessary.
Pavlyuchenko pictured with Russian president Vladimir Putin and other athletes in 2012
The stand-out player of his generation for the Soviet Union and the powerful Dynamo Kyiv team, striker Blokhin boasted an enviable goalscoring record throughout his career.
He was also the coach that guided Ukraine to that first World Cup in 2006, though he couldn't steer them out of the group stage in 2012.
Before all that, Blokhin turned his hand to politics, winning a seat in the Ukrainian parliament with the Hromada party in 1998 despite the fact he was still a member of the Communist Party.
He won re-election to the Verkhovna Rada, the Ukrainian parliament, in 2002 before switching to the United Social Democratic Party.
Oleg Blokhin was a politician before he coached Ukraine at their first-ever World Cup finals 
Heartbroken Timothy Weah embraces coach Gregg Berhalter...
USMNT winger Timothy Weah is hugged by his Ballon...
BREAKING NEWS: Pele 'will spend Christmas in hospital' after...
JEFF POWELL: Forget the emotional outpouring, Lionel Messi...
Share or comment on this article: 
Pele, George Weah and Andriy Shevchenko among political footballers
SAMI MOKBEL: Arne Slot will bring attacking, entertaining football back to Tottenham&hellip; but, Mr Levy, he likes...
Vinicius Jnr's red card against Valencia is rescinded and Mestalla stand is ordered to be closed for FIVE...
EXCLUSIVE: Operation FA Cup final - Manchester City and United assigned their own service stations amid...
Raheem Sterling one of a number of high-profile England stars whose squad place is in doubt as Gareth...
Pep Guardiola insists he will NOT leave Manchester City this summer if they win the Treble, as the manager...
IAN HERBERT: As Steve Cooper saved Nottingham Forest, he had the class to embrace the club's past... do NOT...
Arne Slot set to become new Tottenham manager, with talks to negotiate &pound;10m Feyenoord exit set for Wednesday...
Everton are among the few genuine giants of English football, writes lifelong supporter BRIAN VINER ahead of...
Dominant Man City are champions again but how can their Premier League rivals stop them next season? United...
West Ham and Aston Villa are interested in Leicester's &pound;50m-rated forward Harvey Barnes, with the England...
Cristiano Ronaldo rolls back the years with a powerful run and finish to seal stunning comeback for Al Nassr...
MIKE DICKSON:&nbsp;The bell's tolling for Rafael Nadal but don't despair... this may be the most thrilling French...
Luton are planning to demolish and rebuild their Bobbers Stand in just ONE SUMMER if they secure promotion...
Kim Min-jae has been nicknamed 'the monster' and hailed as the 'best centre back in the world' by his Napoli...
Bukayo Saka signs a new long-term contract at Arsenal with the winger set to stay at the Emirates until...
Wolves' saviour Julen Lopetegui will hold talks this week over summer transfer plans amid fears he could...
'Don't wear a white suit for Christ's sake!': Legendary ex-Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson takes a...
EXCLUSIVE: UEFA hold urgent talks on taking a stand against disgraceful racist abuse targeted at Real...
Is Vinicius Jnr ready to LEAVE Real Madrid after latest racism storm? What was chanted amid the disturbing...
Taiwo Awoniyi secures Forest's survival, Bryan Mbeumo proves he can step up in Ivan Toney's absence and...
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
