Siren who made Marilyn look like Shirley Temple: Gina Lollobrigida drove men crazy with lust | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Prince Harry loses latest legal challenge against Home Office after it refused to let him pay for Met Police to act as his personal security because its officers 'are not guns for hire'
Moment furious motorist attacks Just Stop Oil eco-zealots as he pushes them to the ground before police officers swoop in and arrest HIM during another slow-march protest through capital
Wrong again! IMF finally admits Britain WON'T go into recession this year as it upgrades forecast AGAIN - after Jeremy Hunt warned it had been far too gloomy
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Hundreds outraged by woman's 'rude' and 'inconsiderate' act on three-hour flight
Row over Blur singer Damon Albarn's 'intrusive' eco-friendly heat pumps outside his Devon farmhouse as frontman installs a second box near public footpath 'before being granted planning permission'
The best places to stay in the world: Scarborough B&B is named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
The £15 loaf of sourdough that 'helps you sleep, boosts your immune system, lowers your blood pressure and cuts your stress'
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' and says Phillip Schofield was 'entitled to a better send-off' from This Morning
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Cardiff estate turned into a 'warzone' after two teens died in e-scooter tragedy: Workers clear streets as police hit back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
Men admit to the VERY petty reasons they start arguments with their girlfriends - including an excuse to storm out so they can party with their friends
Christian is banned from teaching for misgendering a trans pupil 'in first case of its kind in UK' - but he defiantly vows to appeal after saying he is 'devastated' by ruling
UK flooded with dodgy boiler 'upgrade' pumps that make energy bills MORE expensive and don't meet regulations
Warning over shoulder surfing PIN thieves stealing information from smartphones - here's how to stay safe
Screen siren who made Marilyn look like Shirley Temple: Gina Lollobrigida drove men from Howard Hughes to Fidel Castro crazy with lust, and feuded with Sophia Loren over who had the bigger bust. But anyone who crossed her felt the lash of her tongue
Gina 'La Lollo' Lollobrigida passed away today aged 95 in a Rome private clinic 
She was described as the Mona Lisa of the 20th century and 'busto provocante' 
Gina was one of the leading stars of Italian cinema in the 1950s and 1960s 
Jane Fryer for the Daily Mail
 22:41, 16 January 2023 
 03:40, 17 January 2023 
After a life lived at very full throttle, the great Gina '
 Lollo' Lollobrigida would have been forgiven for wanting to spend her latter years a little more quietly.
Perhaps tending her roses, or lying gracefully on one of her many chaises longues and reminiscing about a movie career starring alongside Frank Sinatra, Errol Flynn, Burt Lancaster, 
 and Yul Brynner, her global fame and acclaimed beauty.
She was described as the Mona Lisa of the 20th century, the 'temptress of the Tiber' and the 'busto provocante' and drove everyone including movie mogul Howard Hughes, Prince Rainier III and Cuban dictator 
But Gina, who passed away today, aged 95, in a private clinic in Rome, was never really the sort to live quietly away from the headlines.
Italian actress Gina 'La Lollo' Lollobrigida passed away aged 95, in a private clinic in Rome
From bitter rivals to 'deeply saddened' by her death:...
Gut-wrenching moment fearless British surfer tumbles 60ft...
She had no interest in downsizing her astonishing pink mansion (complete with flock of white storks and extraordinary art collection) or her equally impressive wardrobe. Instead, she celebrated the beginning of her tenth decade by attending a massive party thrown for her by the city of Rome and a seven-tier cake twice her height.
When out on the town, she would be adorned in shimmering haute couture — lemon yellows, baby pinks and sky blues — and so many jewels and sequins she bowed down under the weight.
She talked often and enthusiastically about her many lovers — many of them much, much, younger.
She swept in and out of court for a series of bizarre and very public legal disputes, including one about whether she had or had not married a lover who was 34 years her junior. As she put it herself in one of her final interviews: 'All the things I did, I did with my heart. I am always busy.'
And, just last year, a few weeks after her 95th birthday, she made a second (unsuccessful) foray into Italian politics.
She also never quite grew out of her brilliantly silly feud with fellow Italian Sixties screen siren, Sophia Loren, who once dared to declare herself the 'bustier' of the two and was smacked back by Gina with the damning line: 'We are as different as a fine racehorse and a goat . . . I am the No 1.'
But to be fair — and sorry, Sophia — Gina was right. Because back in the 1950s and 1960s, she was quite possibly the most famous Italian on the planet. And definitely — with her exquisite face and unfeasibly voluptuous, 36-22-35, hourglass figure — the sexiest.
Humphrey Bogart once said she 'made Marilyn Monroe look like Shirley Temple', for goodness' sake. Even Rock Hudson, her co-star in Come September (1961) and Strange Bedfellows (1965), who would later come out as gay, was not immune to her sexual charms. 'When we did our love scenes, he was quite . . . normal. He liked me very much. I felt something . . . it was more than a kiss.'
Pictured: Gina Lollobrigida and American actor Rock Hudson at the studio party in 1965
Gina Lollobrigida (pictured left) with American actress Marilyn Monroe (right) in 1954
Rock was not alone. Gina seemed to generate a sort of madness wherever she went.
When, at the height of her fame, she arrived in Argentina for a visit, she was greeted by a crowd of 60,000 fans, which included the country's dashing president, Juan Peron. In London, hotpants went on sale embossed with her name embroidered across the rear in sequins.
Meanwhile, back home in Italy, her compatriots named a brand-new lettuce — the lollo rosso — in homage to her iconic curly up-do. And newspaper Il Messaggero didn't exactly hold back in describing her as 'opulent, carnal, bewitching, earthy, vital, vibrant, elegant, imperial, an ambassadress of Italian glamour to the world'.
None of which seemed to faze Gina — 'I'm a symbol of Italy. I'm the mother of Italy,' she liked to say, from her ten-bedroom palace in Rome.
But, even so, it must have felt light years from her very modest childhood in the small town of Subiaco near Rome, where her father was a furniture manufacturer who travelled by donkey and where she spent her teenage years avoiding World War II bombing raids before studying sculpture at Rome's Academy of Fine Arts.
Gina Lollobrigida and her boyfriend Javier Rigau attend the 2005 Red Cross Ball in Monaco
Gina, pictured in 2014, went from furniture maker's daughter to international film star, with forays into sculpture, photography and politics 
Because the irony was, Gina never particularly wanted to be an actress. Her passion was art: sculpture and drawing.
But she was spotted by a talent scout, offered an audition at Cinecitta — the Italian version of Hollywood — and was signed up by an Italian film company which cast her as a wild mountain girl who resisted the advances of a police chief.
At first, she wasn't keen. 'I refused when they offered me my first role,' she said. 'I told them my price was one million lire, thinking that would put a stop to the whole thing. But they said yes!'
Soon after, she came third in a Miss Italia beauty pageant and, in 1949, married a Slovenian doctor, Milko Skofic, seven years her senior, who became her manager and with whom she had a son, Milko Jr, born in 1957.
She was one of the leading stars of Italian cinema in the 1950s and 1960s
Milko was perhaps rather more ambitious than his wife and happily took a set of publicity shots for a magazine of her looking particularly good in a bikini that caused quite a stir when Howard Hughes saw them 6,000 miles away in Hollywood.
Hughes — the richest tycoon in the world at the time — was like a man possessed. He tracked Gina down, offered a screen test and a free trip for her and her husband to Hollywood and, in the event — surprise, surprise — sent just one ticket for Gina.
And then, from the minute she arrived, he did everything in his power to bed her. He had divorce lawyers waiting at the airport, wooed her with a suite in a luxury hotel with a secretary and chauffeur and, for three months, visited her daily, bombarding her with pass after pass. Today, he would clearly fall into the #MeToo category.
But, in retrospect, Gina always rather regretted fending him off quite so effectively.
'I was too innocent at the time,' she said. 'I later realised he was a very interesting man. More interesting than my husband.'
And so, after just three months she signed a contract and returned home, determined to avoid Hollywood and work mainly in France and Italy — making films such as The Wayward Wife and Bread, Love And Dreams.
It was her first well-known English-language movie in 1953 — opposite Bogart in John Huston's Beat The Devil, and shot on the Amalfi coast — that was the beginning of a series of starring roles alongside the world's most glamorous men.
Errol Flynn in Crossed Swords; Anthony Quinn in The Hunchback Of Notre Dame and Burt Lancaster and Tony Curtis in Trapeze.
She was a fantastically hard worker — during the 1950s, often making a film a month — and got on with all of her extremely appreciative co-stars, but for Frank Sinatra.
'Zero sense of humour,' she declared after he was regularly late on set and was clearly shocked and sulky when she ticked him off.
For Gina was never the sort to bite her lip and keep her own counsel. As well as giving old Blue Eyes the hairdryer treatment, she would be outspoken in interviews, claiming women pretended to be stupid in front of men and insisting she had no problem with being objectified as a sex object — 'Why should I be offended? It's not an insult,' she said.
Gina never particularly wanted to be an actress. Her passion was art: sculpture and drawing 
She was also ballsy. So when, in 1965, she was caught out for not paying £4,000 taxes in California and state officials seized her jewellery, she hit back: 'I never knew I owed any taxes. Even the Mafia gives at least one warning.'
And later, when she was criticised in London for wearing a tiger-skin coat, she insisted the coat had taken 'only' three tigers to make. 'What can I do? The tigers in my coat were already dead.'
She was also an enthusiastic litigator and was in and out of court from the 1950s about everything from a dispute with a New York restaurant to whether some bright studio lights had rather penetrated her nylon 'scanties'.
At one point, she had four concurrent lawsuits running.
Not that it did her any harm. Maybe it was because she had never yearned for acting superstardom. But certainly, back in the day, the less she seemed to care, the more the studios offered her. 'At one point in my contract I had 10 per cent of the gross profits, approval of my co-star, the director, and the script,' she once said.
Meanwhile, for all Hughes's relentless pestering, he got nowhere. Gina's name was, though, romantically linked with President Sukarno of Indonesia and Fidel Castro — more in a minute on him.
But it was a brief affair with Christiaan Barnard, the South African heart transplant pioneer, that finally did for her moribund marriage.
Pictured: Miss Lollobrigida, starring in 1959's Solomon and Sheba, drove men crazy with lust
Not that she seemed too bothered, as she filed for divorce in 1971 the minute it was legalised in Italy and declared: 'A woman at 20 is like ice. At 30 she is warm. At 40 she is hot. We are going up as men are going down.'
Maybe. But for all her heat, by the late 60s, her career was on the wane and the parts were drying up. Her last major film — alongside David Niven in King, Queen, Knave, in 1972 — was fraught with difficulties. There were tantrums, rows, halts in production and very mixed reviews.
For any other bombshell beauty of an actress, the end of a career and a few wrinkles and dimples might have spelled total disaster. But not Gina.
The actress snapped at the Hotel Carlton after arriving with four Dalmatians during the 25th Cannes International Film Festival in 1972
She simply returned to her first love of art and reinvented herself as an accomplished sculptress, photographer, occasional aspiring politician and, briefly, journalist. And, in 1974, she wrote a personal letter to Fidel Castro in Havana which, somehow, persuaded the Cuban dictator to agree to an interview.
Four days later she was on a flight out to Cuba with 'eight cameras, 200 rolls of film, ten pairs of new blue jeans, a sound technician, a cameraman and a U.S. girlfriend'.
As she once put it: 'My friend and I were sunbathing nude in the garden of the residence when a man appeared and announced the presence of Fidel. He smiled at me, pretending not to notice my scanty clothing. He shook hands with me, welcoming me to Cuba.'
She never did confirm whether she and Fidel had an affair. Though she described him as 'extremely human, warm and hypnotising' and stayed rather longer than anticipated.
Whatever, it was a great coup, gave her fantastic publicity and helped launch a very successful photographic career.
So, given all Gina's guts and grist and bullish brilliance, it seems a shock and a shame that her last couple of decades were rather mired and marked by unwise and unguarded relationships with much younger men who, while she was appreciative of them — 'I have always had a weakness for young men' — were themselves clearly in it for something other than her once hourglass figure.
Humphrey Bogart once said she 'made Marilyn Monroe look like Shirley Temple', for goodness' sake 
First, there was that hullaballoo with Javier Rigau y Rafols, the tall, charming Spaniard 34 years her junior who claimed they had been in a relationship for two decades before marrying in 2006. Something that Gina later bizarrely disputed and went back to court to deny, but lost.
Then, soon after, she was seemingly targeted by an even younger man. This time a pretender called Andrea Piazzolla, just 27, who first made himself indispensable to her and, once he'd won her confidence, allegedly started siphoning off her multi-million-pound fortune to spend on cars, and houses and anything else he fancied.
Poor Gina. Because, of course, we should not be focusing on young men preying on a woman who never quite found the love she had hoped for. But instead, on La Lollo and her extraordinary beauty and siren sex appeal, her sense of humour. Her ability to reinvent, to keep up the glamour and the style and couture well into her 90s and to not give a damn.
Even when, arguably, she really should have done. Because they don't make women like La Lollo any more.
Share or comment on this article: 
Siren who made Marilyn look like Shirley Temple: Gina Lollobrigida drove men crazy with lust
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
