Rishi Sunak latest: Tory revolt over childcare reforms | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Tory revolt over childcare reforms spreads as Rishi Sunak faces pressure to revive Truss plan for more free nursery time for working families struggling with soaring costs - with one of his own supporters says there is a 'strong case for intervening'
Liz Truss has warned Rishi Sunak not to scrap her proposed childcare reforms
It comes amid growing concern among Tory MPs over its 'unaffordable' costs 
Ms Truss fast-tracked plans to offer more help to parents during her time as PM
David Wilcock, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline
David Churchill, Chief Political Correspondent For The Daily Mail
 10:13, 4 January 2023 
 14:08, 4 January 2023 
 is today facing a growing 
 revolt over soaring childcare costs as his own supporters joined the campaign demanding action.
The PM is under increasing fire over a decision to scrap a plan to reform pre-school care to help parents afford places and return to work. 
He has axed proposals outlined by his brief predecessor 
 to ditch mandatory staff-child ratios in nurseries, aimed at reducing overheads. 
Plans to extend free care for toddlers from 30 to 50 hours a week are also under review. 
Previous criticism was limited to supporters of Truss, but today backers of the PM himself urged action. 
of the education committee who backed Mr Sunak for the leadership last year, today said there was 'a strong case for intervening further'. He is to launch an inquiry into the problem.
At the same time former minister Dame Andrea Leadsom warned that the issue of childcare could be a key battleground at the next election. 
The PM is under increasing fire over a decision to scrap a plan to reform pre-school care to help parents afford places and return to work 
He has axed proposals outlined by his brief predecessor Liz Truss to ditch mandatory staff-child ratios in nurseries, aimed at reducing overheads. Plans to extend free care for toddlers from 30 to 50 hours a week are also under review
Robin Walker, the chairman of the education committee who backed Mr Sunak for the leadership last year, today said there was ''strong case for intervening further'.
At the same time former minister Dame Andrea Leadsom warned that the issue of childcare could be a key battleground at the next election.
Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, and comparing spending to that in other countries, Mr Walker said it has been increased a 'great deal over the last decade' on three- and four-year-olds, but added 'we spend far, far less on the twos and under' compared with other countries.
Speaking about support for early years, he said: 'I think there is strong political support for doing more in that space, but we haven't yet seen the money flowing through.'
And he said the tax-free childcare policy 'is only reaching about a third of the people it was designed to', saying the funding there 'isn't currently making the difference that it could'.
'There's been a number of recent think tank reports... on looking at the costs and impacts here, which I think do show that there is a strong case for intervening further to support families. And it needn't necessarily all come at extra cost to the Treasury,' he said.
, Dame Andrea warned that a failure to act could hammer the party at the next election.
'I think it's a major, major battleground issue for the next election, and I want every Conservative to have on their pledge cards 'we have delivered the best start for life programme',' she said.
'We have a problem with younger voters, we have a problem with particularly young female voters.'
Rishi Sunak vows to get a grip on NHS crisis in New Year...
'I'm in charge of curing the NHS now': Rishi Sunak unveils...
 warned her successor not to scrap her proposed childcare reforms.
It comes amid growing concern among 
 MPs over the 'unaffordable' and spiralling costs that parents face.
During her short stint as prime minister, Ms Truss fast-tracked plans to offer more help. A third of women say childcare costs have forced them or their partners to consider quitting work.
During her short stint as prime minister, Liz Truss fast-tracked plans to offer more help. A third of women say childcare costs have forced them or their partners to consider quitting work
A source close to Ms Truss told The Times: 'Excessive bureaucracy is making childcare in England increasingly unaffordable. Junking Liz's plans for this critical policy area seems economically and politically counterproductive.'
And Kit Malthouse, education secretary under Ms Truss, urged Mr Sunak to 'push the go button as soon as possible' on the former PM's proposals.
He said: 'The current system is a complicated Heath Robinson affair that means no one, parents or providers, is happy.
'It's fundamental for economic growth that parents are supported in work and my team and I had formed up a 'childcare big bang' plan to do just that.'
UK parents spend around 26 per cent of joint income on childcare against a 9 per cent average in other developed nations. But the issue has slipped down Mr Sunak's list of priorities amid crippling strikes and record numbers of Channel migrants.
English parents with children aged three to four can get 30 hours of free childcare a week. The Times says Mr Sunak is considering extending this to all two-year-olds rather than Miss Truss's 50-hours proposal. Currently only parents on benefits get free care for children at two.
The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: 'We're certainly continuing to review all options to improve the cost, choice and availability of high-quality childcare for working parents.'
Andrea Leadsom Says Supporting Parents Is A “Major Battleground Issue” For 2023
Share or comment on this article: 
Rishi Sunak latest: Tory revolt over childcare reforms
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
