Harry's confessions could have 'dire consequences' for Meghan's political hopes, experts claim | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
'Harry's tell-all truth bomb could really backfire for Meghan's political hopes': Prince's cocaine confession, his claims about killing 25 Taliban and complaints while living a privileged life could have 'dire consequences', PR experts claim
Harry's revelations could scupper Meghan's political hopes, PR experts claim
The Duke's book detailed drug use, killing 25 Taliban fighters and losing virginity
Brand expert said his cocaine confession 'will not play out well in the US'
 16:39, 6 January 2023 
 14:39, 8 January 2023 
'Truth bombs' revealed in Prince Harry's tell-all memoir Spare could have 'dire consequences' for his wife Meghan's political ambitions, according to PR experts.
ahead of the January 10 publication date, includes confessions of drug use and claims that 
In one passage, the prince - who was known as 'Captain Wales' while in the military -  wrote
 that did not think of those killed 'as people' but instead 'chess pieces' he had taken off the board.
But brand experts have said the revelations could scupper Meghan's political hopes amid speculation that she may have ambitions for elected office.
Prince Harry pictured in 2001 at a polo match in Cirenchester, Gloucestershire
Harry pictured during his second tour of duty at Camp Bastion, southern Afghanistan, in 2012
Now even Harry and Meghan's Netflix expert slams couple for...
'Prince Harry has turned on his military family': Iraq war...
Nick Ede told MailOnline that while his autobiography could make make him rich, it may also trigger the beginning of a 'fall from grace' including 
'dire consequences' for his wife's ambitions to enter US politics.
The brand expert said: 'The revelations from the new book Spare will have a direct effect on Meghan's lofty ambitions of running for office.
'With her husband's candid admissions of drug use, lurid tales of his 
 and more importantly his admission to killing 25 people when on active duty, these could potentially have dire consequences on her and her ambitions.
'We know that when someone has political ambitions that they are constantly under the microscope not only from the media but also political opponents.'
A bestselling memoir would put Meghan in a well-trodden American political tradition, amid reports that she may have ambitions for elected office, given her outspoken views on women's rights and other issues. 
Harry and Meghan pictured in September last year at Global Citizen Live in New York 
But Mr Ede said Harry's 'tell-all truth bomb could really backfire on her and stop her in her tracks'.
He added: 'From a brand point of view I do not think this will solidify the couple as an all-conquering brand.
'In fact I think it is setting them up for a fall from grace and one has to remember that this is not their truth, it's their perspective and they are two very different things'.
Sophie Attwood, director of global PR consultancy, Sophie Attwood Communications, fears the Duke's brand may 'never recover' after his deeply personal revelations came to light.
She told MailOnline: 'From a PR perspective it’s essential to all brands, and Harry and Meghan have most certainly become a brand in their own right, to gain the trust of their "consumer", or in this sense the general public.
'It’s clear that Harry believes that by sharing these things he is providing an honest insight into his experience. By giving the public this previously unheard of access to his private life it’s as if he is seeking to gain our trust in relation to other events that he speaks of - such as his side of the Royal divisions.
'And whilst effective PR is built upon trust and a dialogue with the consumer, or in this case the public, the key to good PR is knowing what to share and what not to.
'In this instance one would question why his PR team did not step in and suggest the omission of the frostbitten penis, the sex with an older woman in a field, or numerous other extremely personal insights which once shared can never be unshared.' 
It comes as Harry's admission that he killed 25 insurgents during his 2012 tour of Afghanistan has sent shockwaves through the military world.
Predicting the US will tire of the Sussexes' endless moaning while living a gilded life, Mr Ede said: 
‘The US will start to turn on the couple because they don’t want their celebrities to complain.
'The constant bombardment of the Royal Family, who the US like and admire, will backfire on them.
‘Anytime a privileged talent complains about their lives there’s a backlash from the public you can see it with the Kardashians or other reality stars, which let’s face it - the duke and duchess are becoming.
‘Brands and charities won’t want to be affiliated and the public tide will turn quickly’.
Meanwhile, PR guru Mark Borkowski, said that Harry's revelation that he took drugs is 
very bad for the Sussex brand and his wife's political ambitions.
He said: 'The drugs revelations will not play out well in the US, especially in middle America'.
The Duke of Sussex 's book Spare includes confessions of drug use and claims that he killed 25 Taliban fighters while on a tour of duty in Afghanistan
Meghan and Harry pictured during the Queen's Platinum Jubilee celebrations in June 2022
On Harry's admission that he killed 25 Taliban, he said that it will be less of an issue in the US than the drugs, but is 'an almighty catastrophe in the Middle East and Muslim nations'.
PR guru Mark Borkowski warned that Prince Harry will regret 'weaponising' his past in his 'dirty laundry' book – and so will his wife – because it leaves them with little left to sell.
Adding that the couple had been poorly advised, the brand expert said their 'desperation' to make headlines has 
, who 'became a sad irrelevance' after selling his story in full after abdicating.
He continued: 'The content of the book is very damaging for their ambitions. Post the chaos of the coming TV interviews how much more can he reveal. He is playing his last shot.
'The Royal Family's silence makes it more difficult for Harry to continue to generate future headlines. He will hate being ignored and underlines his powerlessness.
'He is drifting toward irrelevance. This need to tell his story echoes Harry's great-grand uncle, the Duke of Windsor.
'He became a sad irrelevance after he, penned his version of the events that led him to abdicate the throne to marry American divorcée, Wallis Simpson.
'The key concern for me the outing of his service kills. He has placed himself and his family in grave danger to create a sensational publicity hook.
'Has he forgotten the recent attack on Rushdie in Boston? These jihadis play a long game. Again this smells of desperation and poor guidance.'
He added: 'Harry and Meghan got through the documentary with a bit of dignity intact but the book is just a bit crass and petty –dirty laundry stuff.
'So the Royals just have to keep quiet and they'll look dignified and like they're taking the moral high ground'.
, including claims that she would 'seriously consider' running for president if her husband dropped his royal title.
Two years ago a friend of the Duchess told Vanity Fair magazine that one of the reasons she did not give up her American citizenship when she married into the Royal Family was to allow her to keep open the option of entering politics.
Earlier this year, the Duchess revealed she is willing to go to Washington DC to join protests against the Roe v Wade abortion ruling and urged people to vote in the November midterms. 
In a past interview with Vogue, Meghan also urged men to be 'more vocal' with their anger at the repealing of Roe v Wade and revealed that 
's response to the Supreme Court's decision was 'guttural'.
She said: 'My husband and I talked about that a lot over the past few days. He's a feminist too' and in an intervention that will be widely perceived to be pro-Democrat, she said: 'We have to channel that fear into action. We can start this November in the midterms. We have to vote, every time'.
Share or comment on this article: 
Harry's confessions could have 'dire consequences' for Meghan's political hopes, experts claim
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
