Pen Farthing flees Kabul saying Prince Harry's confession to killing 25 Taliban put him in danger | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Animal charity boss Pen Farthing flees Kabul saying Prince Harry's confession to killing 25 Taliban has put him in mortal danger - as military expert says comments are a 'gift' to tank-chasing lawyers keen to prosecute British soldiers for war crimes
Pen Farthing said Prince Harry's book has meant he has had to flee Afghanistan
In his book 'Spare', the Duke of Sussex said he killed 25 Taliban fighters
Prince Harry wrote that he thought of them as 'chess pieces' taken off a board
He called Prince Harry an 'idiot' who hadn't thought through security concerns
 16:11, 7 January 2023 
 17:21, 7 January 2023 
An ex-Marine who has worked to rehome some 170 stray cats and dogs from 
 says he has had to flee Kabul over fear of attack after Prince Harry admitted to killing 25 
Pen Farthing, 53, called Prince Harry an 'idiot' and said he had not thought through the security implications of his revelations in his new autobiography.
. He succeeded in bringing the animals back from Afghanistan as UK forces evacuated the country, but clashed with the British government who called his campaign distracting.
In his controversial autobiography 'Spare', the 
 wrote that he had killed some 25 Taliban fighters while serving as a helicopter pilot in Afghanistan, and that he did not think of those he killed 'as people' but as 'chess pieces' that had to be taken off the board.
Several high-ranking military veterans and experts have also blasted Prince Harry for his comments, with one former British Army Commander, Colonel Richard Kemp, saying that what the Prince has written will be 'seized on by lawyers who want to prosecute British soldiers' for 
Pen Farthing, 53, called Prince Harry an 'idiot' and said he had not thought through the security implications of his revelations in his new autobiography. Pictured: Farthing with dog Nowzad in Afghanistan in 2006
Prince Harry sits atop a Spartan armoured vehicle in the Helmand province, Southern Afghanistan, February 18, 2008
Prince Harry reveals his side of 'tiara-gate': Duke DENIES...
Prince William and Kate were 'religious' viewers of Meghan's...
Pen Farthing, who had been in Afghanistan for the past 18 months as part of his Operation Ark campaign to rescue animals from shelters in the country, said the 'badly judged memoir' had created grave security concerns for him.
In 'Spare', the Prince said that he flew on six missions that resulted in the 'taking of human lives'.
This is the first time Prince Harry has specified the number of insurgents he personally killed during his time in Afghanistan, where he went in both 2007-8 and 2012 and flew an Apache attack helicopter during his second tour. 
 Farthing took to Twitter to share his disgust and anger at the book, writing: 'Well I was a Royalist until today…. Cheers #PrinceHarry You have been very badly advised I would probably say. And glad you thought through the security implications of those of us still out in #Afghanistan trying to bring about some good. #idiot #notmyprince.'
His Tweet was seen hundreds of thousands of times by users, with many voicing their own opinion, both in support of Farthing as well as the Prince.
One user told him to 'get off the bandwagon' and that the Taliban would not be 'unaware that he dispatched some of them'.
But Farthing explained that it was only after Prince Harry's revelations in the new book that he 'had to bail from Kabul', having previously been in Afghanistan 'working with the new government' in his Operation Arc campaign.
Pen Farthing called Prince Harry an 'idiot' and said he had not thought through the security implications of his revelations in his new book, Tweeting January 6, 2023
Pen Farthing explained that he had to evacuate from Kabul because of the risk of attack on ex-forces sparked by Prince Harry's new book, Tweeting January 6, 2023
Pen Farthing had been in Afghanistan for the past 18 months as part of his Operation Ark campaign to rescue animals from shelters in the country. Pictured: Farthing in Pakistan, September 12, 2021
Pen Farthing shows the Nowzad donkey sanctuary in Afghanistan to his Twitter followers, January 6, 2023
Farthing asked his followers to keep their donations coming in so that the donkeys and horses from the streets of Kabul could be looked after, January 6, 2023
He later Tweeted again after some Twitter users suggested that Prince Harry's book would not have caused any further risk than there already was.
Farthing said: 'To the idiots who made dumbass comments in support of #PrinceHarry in my tweet below, know I have had to evac from #Kabul tonight in case of potential reprisal attacks on ex-forces people like me in the wake of his badly judged memoir.. the animals suffer not me. You happy?' 
Farthing made headlines in 2021 when he desperately tried to get stray animals that his charity had rescued in Afghanistan out of the country as UK forces pulled out of Kabul.  
Farthing drew both support and criticism from the Operation Arc campaign. Defence Secretary Ken Wallace labelled the campaign as distracting and said it was diverting attention from a humanitarian disaster.
He became one of the very last Brits to leave the country as the Taliban regime took back Kabul. 
Prince Harry has also drawn criticism from other military veterans and experts.
Former British army Commander Colonel Richard Kemp said 'publicly announcing that he had killed 25 Taliban fighters in Afghanistan is like shooting himself in the foot', he wrote in the 
He added that it would 'rekindle jihadist animosity' and would 'incite some who want to take revenge'.
In 'Spare', the Prince said that he flew on six missions that resulted in the 'taking of human lives'. Pictured: Prince Harry at the British controlled flight-line in Camp Bastion southern Afghanistan, October 31, 2012
Prince Harry has also drawn criticism from military veterans and experts over his book's revelations. Pictured: Prince Harry at Camp Bastion in southern Afghanistan, where he served as an Apache Helicopter Pilot, September 2012
Prince Harry to scramble his Apache helicopter with fellow pilots at the British controlled flight-line in Camp Bastion southern Afghanistan, November 3, 2012
Col Kemp also said that Prince Harry saying he saw Taliban fighters as 'chess pieces' to take off the board would be 'seized on by lawyers who what to prosecute British soldiers on allegations of unlawful killing and ill-treatment of prisoners'.
 column that the Duke of Sussex's comments 'paint a picture of a military that indoctrinates its troops to act against the Geneva conventions requiring enemy dead, wounded or captured to be treated with respect'.
Rear Admiral Chris Parry, retired Royal Navy officer, also criticised the Duke of Sussex for saying that he had killed 25 Taliban fighters.
Speaking to Sky News, he said: 'Over 35 years of service myself, I've never heard anybody in the Armed Forces say what their score is. I think it's highly unusual and I think, if we're going to be kind, it must be the ghostwriter which has put these words into Harry's mouth.
'I'm afraid to say that it's clumsy, tasteless and doesn't afford respect to the people who have been killed. 25 is a suspiciously round number as far as I'm concerned and I just wonder if this is some of the hype associated with the book.'
He added: 'You don't have to itemise what you say you've done. I think there are enough descriptions of what life is like in combat, there's enough good people around to actually tell you what goes on. You don't have to get down to the individual deaths.'
Colonel Tim Collins (left), known for a pre-battle speech he made in Iraq, thundered: 'Harry has now turned against the other family, the military, that once embraced him, having trashed his birth family'. Ex-Army chief Colonel Richard Kemp (right) called Harry's comments 'ill-judged' and said soldiers are not trained to regard their targets as 'subhuman' 
Major Chris Hunter, a decorated former army bomb disposal officer who served in Afghanistan, told GB News: 'Very rarely will any soldier, sailor or airman, serving or a veteran, talk about numbers of kills.
'I think that, coupled with the fact it uses terms like chess pieces, dehumanises them, I think that could very, very easily cause some serious repercussions.
'Not just for his own security, but the wider security, to the Royal Family and actually to the servicemen and women on operations across the world at the moment.
'The comments are sad and very much a betrayal. Everyone in the Army swears an oath of allegiance to the monarch, he's betrayed his own family for money. It is just truly sad. I'm very, very disappointed.'
Colonel Tim Collins, known for a pre-battle speech he made in Iraq, told Forces News: 'Amongst his assertions is a claim that he killed 25 people in Afghanistan.
'That's not how you behave in the Army; it's not how we think.'
He later added: 'Harry has now turned against the other family, the military, that once embraced him, having trashed his birth family.'
He also accused Harry of taking a path that is 'alien' to those in the UK and the Commonwealth, adding that the duke is 'pursuing US identity politics and casting slurs or racism around where none exists'.
'I wonder whose path he has chosen? In the end I see only disappointment and misery in his pursuit of riches he does not need and his rejection of family and comradely love that he badly needs,' he said.
Speaking to ITV's Good Morning Britain, ex-Royal Marine Ben McBean said that his revelations could have significant security repercussions
Prince Harry meeting former Royal Marine Commando Ben McBean, who he called a 'hero'
Ben McBean tweeted: 'Love you #PrinceHarry but you need to shut up! Makes you wonder the people he's hanging around with. If it was good people somebody by now would have told him to stop'
Ben McBean, who Harry hailed as a 'hero' after he lost an arm and a leg in a bomb blast, urged the Duke to 'shut up'.
: 'To bring it back and speak to civilians about it... they don't need to know what you're really up to out there.'
Major General Jonathan Shaw, previously an assistant chief of the Defence Staff, became the most senior British officer to condemn Harry's remarks.
Speaking exclusively to the Mail, the former SAS commander said: 'Soldiers don't talk about killing for good reason. Harry's comments break an unwritten code. I suspect this is motivated by his PR people's drive for money.'
Prince Harry's Taliban comments are ‘stab in the back’ for British Army, says ex commander | Royal | News | Express.co.uk
Share or comment on this article: 
Pen Farthing flees Kabul saying Prince Harry's confession to killing 25 Taliban put him in danger
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
