DAN WOOTTON: Gary Neville betrayed Britain by comparing UK strikes to Qatar migrant workers | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
DAN WOOTTON: Gary Neville has betrayed Britain by using woke ITV to compare the UK’s political strikes to the barbaric treatment of Qatar’s migrant workers. Labour’s ultimate champagne socialist should be ignored
 16:36, 19 December 2022 
 13:29, 22 December 2022 
Imagine being a card-carrying Labour virtue signaller taking millions from the corrupt and discriminatory Qatari regime that oversaw the deaths of up to 6,500 migrant workers in the build-up to the World Cup.
If you made such a deal with the devil for financial reasons, you wouldn’t be so stupid as to preach about the public service strikes trying to bring down the Conservative government while still in 
 – reported last year to have grown his financial assets to £70 million – whose champagne socialism and hypocrisy is now so out of control he should be roundly ignored.
Never has there been a more egregious and immoral false equivalence than the former Manchester United ace comparing parts of the UK’s unionised workforce going on strike to the deadly treatment of workers in Qatar.
'Gary Neville – reported last year to have grown his financial assets to £70 million'
DAN WOOTTON: Gutless Harry has accused his brother William...
DAN WOOTTON: Whimpering I'm A Celebrity star Babatúndé...
The fact that ITV let this paid apologist for the corrupt Qatari regime make such a provably false comparison during the World Cup final shows how unhinged the woke broadcaster has become.
Pity the poor viewers who had turned specifically to the channel to avoid the party political broadcasts from the country’s other incessant champagne socialist hypocrite Gary Lineker over on the British Bashing Corporation.
Of course, Neville has two massive vested interests, given that he is both a member of the Labour party who appeared on stage with Keir Starmer at this year’s party conference and paid by the Qatari government as a pundit via its state broadcaster BeIN SPORTS.
Despite that, in the most misleading piece of television this year, ITV let him say completely unchallenged on air yesterday after sidestepping whether Qatar should have held the tournament in the first place: 'We should detest low pay, we should detest poor accommodation and working conditions.
'We can never accept that in this region or any other region – and it is just worth mentioning we've got a government in our country that are demonising rail workers, ambulance workers and terrifyingly nurses.
'We can't have people being paid an absolute pittance to work, we can't have people in accommodation that is unsavoury and disgusting.
'It shouldn't happen here [in Qatar] with the wealth that exists. But it shouldn't happen with the nurses in our country either where our nurses are having to fight for an extra pound or two pounds.'
To suggest for even a minute that there is any comparison to the highly politicised union dispute in the UK with labour rights in Qatar, where up to 6,500 migrant workers from India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka died since the World Cup was awarded, is treasonous in my opinion.
And, regardless of your position on the strikes, to claim rail workers, ambulance drivers or nurses are being demonised is political poppycock.
Nursing staff are striking outside the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham to demand better pay and conditions on December 15
Like most of us, I believe nurses, who have been given a £1,400 annual increase, should be paid more, but the 19 per cent pay demand from the RCN is unreasonable and would help lead us into an inflation death spiral.
I am also convinced that essential workers like nurses and ambulance drivers should be banned from striking, just like police are.
But these debates can be held publicly and respectfully in the United Kingdom, where democracy and free speech still largely exists.
Of course, Neville is one of those bleeding heart liberals desperate to paint the UK as some sort of backward hell hole.
Yet at the same time he’ll happily take coin from an actual human rights hell hole where women need permission to marry, travel or even to go to school via a male guardian, and female rape victims can face seven years in prison for having sex outside marriage, and where gay folk face floggings, life in prison or even the death penalty.
Neville has destroyed his own credibility and Slippery Starmer and the Labour party should be careful with associating so closely with him in the future.
Because, if his car crash appearance on Have I Got News For You last month is anything to go by, the man who describes the Tories as 'a cancer to the UK’ has no idea quite how tone deaf and out of touch he now appears.
The ex-footballer was clearly expecting a hero’s welcome on the BBC’s leftie comedy panel show, but it ended up very much an own goal as host Ian Hislop harangued him relentlessly over his Qatar deal.
When Neville tried to defend his position, Hislop told him cuttingly: ‘There’s another option: you stay at home and highlight the abuses. You don’t have to go and take the Qataris’ money. It’s just not a very good defence.’
No, it’s not.But neither is trying to use the UK’s out of control unions to incorrectly compare Britain to Qatar on the international stage.
As the PM’s official spokesman concluded today, it is ‘clearly not a legitimate or appropriate comparison in any way’.
Perhaps Rishi Sunak summed it up best when he said: ‘I think when most people are tuning in to watch Gary Neville they want to hear about the football and watch the football. They don't want to discuss politics.’
So I hope you will join me in calling for the England team to stop taking the knee, another meaningless act of virtue signalling caught up with the Marxist Black Lives Matter movement that is best kept out of sport, too.
If the Qatar World Cup, which ended with the greatest final in history from a purely footballing perspective, has taught us one thing it’s that the craven western demand for woke politics to infiltrate every sporting event is, not only exhausting, but, as Gary Neville has discovered, it exposes our former heroes as hopeless hypocrites.
Share or comment on this article: 
DAN WOOTTON: Gary Neville betrayed Britain by comparing UK strikes to Qatar migrant workers
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
