Rishi Sunak's 'big idea' of compulsory maths to the age 18 is mocked | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rioters attack police on Cardiff estate after two teenagers die in e-scooter crash - but force hits back at social media rumours of a 'chase' and insist accident had 'already occured' when they arrived
Christian is banned from teaching for misgendering a trans pupil 'in first case of its kind in UK' - but he defiantly vows to appeal after saying he is 'devastated' by ruling
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
I'm an A&E consultant and this why I believe vapes should be be banned from shops
Blur frontman Damon Albarn upsets his parish council with a 'noisy eyesore' at his huge farmhouse in Devon
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' and says Phillip Schofield was 'entitled to a better send off from's exit from This Morning
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
Ray Stevenson dies at 58: Irish actor starred Marvel's Thor movies and the upcoming Star Wars series Ahsoka
The £15 loaf of sourdough that 'helps you sleep, boosts your immune system, lowers your blood pressure and cuts your stress'
Dominic Raab to stand down as MP at next election after being forced to quit Rishi Sunak's cabinet over bullying allegations
DR MARTIN SCURR: Why do I always have to cough after eating?
The best places to stay in the WORLD in 2023: Scarborough B&B named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
Hundreds outraged by woman's 'rude' and 'inconsiderate' act on three-hour flight: 'My brain can't comprehend this level of entitlement'
Ignore Keir Starmer's vacuous promises. Labour's fanatical ideology means it can never cure the sickness in the NHS, writes leading oncologist KAROL SIKORA
'Show some f***ing respect': Phil Neville bites back at a reporter for interrupting him in a heated press conference after David Beckham's struggling Inter Miami team lost again
Plot to drive out equality chief who's standing up for women: Whistleblowers at human rights commission reveal boss is facing 'witch hunt' from trans lobby
How a gender battle engulfed Britain's equalities watchdog: Baroness faced backlash from left-wing MPs after publicly backing female-only spaces
'How will this fix broken Britain?' Rishi Sunak's 'big idea' of compulsory maths to the age of 18 is mocked as a 'distraction' from NHS crisis and winter of discontent - as Tories demand he focuses on illegal immigration instead
PM will state aim to ensure young people better equipped for 'jobs of the future'
Required maths will be delivered through new courses or existing qualifications
Currently only around half of 16 to 19 year-olds study maths in some form
Rishi Sunak is giving his keynote speech in London around 2pm this afternoon 
James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline
 09:59, 4 January 2023 
 08:44, 6 January 2023 
's 'big idea' of making maths compulsory to the age of 18 was mocked today as a 'dead cat' to distract from the 
 crisis and winter of discontent.
In his first major speech as PM this afternoon, Mr Sunak will promise to equip children for the 'jobs of the future' by combating high rates of innumeracy in the UK.
Young people will be forced to take 'some form' of maths delivered either through new courses or existing qualifications such as A-levels, T-levels and Core Maths. For most the drive is likely to involve practical skills rather than algebra.
But Opposition parties dismissed the initiative as 'empty' and an 'admission of failure' - while 
 urged Mr Sunak to focus on tackling illegal immigration instead.   
Nigel Farage swiped that 'quadratic equations' would not help fix 'broken Britain'. 
Pupils will be forced to take 'some form' of maths delivered either through new courses or existing qualifications such as A-levels, T-levels and Core Maths
Pictured: Rishi Sunak leaves 10 Downing Street to attend Prime Minister's Questions in the Houses of Parliament on December 14, 2022 (file photo)
Former Cabinet minister John Redwood urged Mr Sunak to focus on tackling illegal immigration and the Channel crisis 
Nigel Farage swiped that 'quadratic equations' would not help fix 'broken Britain'
Rishi Sunak under fire after he 'quietly ditches' Liz...
Bonfire of EU laws is now 'unlikely to take place in 2023':...
Attempting to make a virtue of his own privileged education at elite public school Winchester College, the premier is expected to say: 'This is personal for me. Every opportunity I've had in life began with the education I was so fortunate to receive. 
'And it's the single most important reason why I came into politics: To give every child the highest possible standard of education.
'Thanks to the reforms we've introduced since 2010, and the hard work of so many excellent teachers, we've made incredible progress.
'With the right plan – the right commitment to excellence – I see no reason why we cannot rival the best education systems in the world.'
Around eight million adults in England have numeracy skills expected of primary school children, according to Government figures.
Currently only around half of 16 to 19 year-olds study maths in some form. The problem is particularly acute for disadvantaged pupils, 60 per cent of whom do not have basic maths skills at age 16.
Mr Sunak will point out that the UK remains one of the only countries in the world that does not require children to study some form of maths up to the age of 18.
Several countries in the OECD economic forum – including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Finland, Japan, Norway and the US – all insist that pupils maintain the subject.
'In a world where data is everywhere and statistics underpin every job, our children's jobs will require more analytical skills than ever before,' the PM will say.
'And letting our children out into the world without those skills, is letting them down.'
The move will aim to give children a range of quantitative and statistical skills they can use in the world of work, and in their personal lives.
They could be given lessons on personal finance, for example how to handle the search for the best mortgage deal or savings rate, or lessons on how to manipulate databases.
Shadow education secretary Bridget Phillipson said the Prime Minister 'needs to show his working', as 'he cannot deliver this reheated, empty pledge without more maths teachers'.
She added: 'Yet the Government has missed their target for new maths teachers year after year, with existing teachers leaving in their droves.'
A Labour source said: 'In their desperation to ensure Sunak's speech doesn't happen after Keir's, No 10 have revealed they have nothing to offer the country except… double maths.
'As the health service falls to pieces after 12 years of Tory rule, criminals terrorise the streets, and working people worry how their wages will last the month, the country is entitled to ask: is this it?'
Former Cabinet minister John Redwood tweeted: 'As the Prime Minister turns his attention to maths teaching he should not forget his choice as most pressing priority was to stop illegal migration. 
'Parliament needs to legislate urgently on small boats and public services.'
Mr Farage also waded in, saying: 'So Rishi Sunak's big idea to save the nation is maths until the age of 18! How will quadratic equations help to solve broken Britain?' 
It is unlikely that A-level maths, which has a heavy focus on teaching theoretical methods such as algebra and calculus, will be made compulsory for teenagers.
Instead, the Government said it expected to use existing qualifications, such as the Core Maths qualifications and T-Levels, as well as 'more innovative options', which it has not elaborated upon.
A Government source said: 'There has rightly been a lot of emphasis on literacy and phonics, and we now need the same focus on numeracy. We owe it to young people to give them the skills they need.
'There are so many occupations that require more maths than they did even a decade ago – look at something like marketing and advertising, where it is all about analytics and data.'
Currently only around half of 16 to 19 year-olds study maths in some form. The problem is particularly acute for disadvantaged pupils, 60 per cent of whom do not have basic maths skills at age 16
Share or comment on this article: 
Rishi Sunak's 'big idea' of compulsory maths to the age 18 is mocked
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
