Michael Bloomberg is interested in buying either Dow Jones or the Jeff Bezos owned Washington Post | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Billionaire Michael Bloomberg is interested in buying either Dow Jones or Washington Post - DC newspaper owned by Jeff Bezos announced coming layoffs in contentious town hall with staff earlier this month
A shocking new report from Axios indicates that billionaire Michael Bloomberg is interested in buying either Dow Jones &amp; Company or the Washington Post 
Bloomberg, with his net worth of over $76 billion, sees merging either the Post or Dow with his eponymous brand would create a news behemoth
A Washington Post spokesperson said in response to the news: 'The Washington Post is not for sale'
The iconic newspaper was purchased by Jeff Bezos in 2013 but it's believed the Amazon founder has lost interest in the brand 
Just last week, the Post's publisher announced that there would be layoffs at the company in the first quarter of 2023 
 16:37, 23 December 2022 
 17:52, 23 December 2022 
Prospective 2024 presidential candidate, billionaire Michael Bloomberg, the owner of Bloomberg L.P., is interested in acquiring either Wall Street Journal parent 
 news website Axios reported on Friday.
Such a merger would create a financial data and news giant, further firming up the world's 12th richest man's stronghold on the business and likely allowing his company to sell more Bloomberg Terminals - the main source of its revenue.
 report, Bloomberg, whose net worth is estimated at $76.8 billion, sees News Corp-owned Dow Jones, also the publisher of Barron's and MarketWatch, as the ideal fit, but would buy the Post if Amazon.com Inc founder 
Neither Bloomberg nor Dow Jones have responded to the reports. A Washington Post spokesperson, however, told Axios that the Post is 'not for sale.' 
Michael Bloomberg, with his net worth of over $76 billion, sees merging either the Post or Dow with his eponymous brand would create a news behemoth
Bezos purchased The Washington Post in 2013 for $250 million. Following recent failures at the paper, however, Axios reports that many are wondering how invested the billionaire is in the iconic newspaper. 
Just last week, a video of Post publisher Fred Ryan casually announcing that layoffs were coming to the Post in 2023 during a company town hall was met with derision.  
What are you hiding? Liberal media fails to cover Hunter...
Salesforce CEO lays into employees hired during pandemic:...
Ryan walked off stage while being bombarded with questions. He told the audience that he would not turn the town hall into a 'grievance session.' 
The Washington Post Guild fired back at Ryan, describing his refusal to take questions as 'unacceptable' behavior 'from any leader,' but 'especially the leader of a news organization whose core values include transparency and accountability.' 
Just last week, a video of Washington Post publisher Fred Ryan casually announcing that layoffs were coming to the Post in 2023 during a company town hall was met with derision
In addition to the Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones is also the parent of Barron's and MarketWatch
In the aftermath of that incident, an unnamed Washington Post staffer told 
 'The mood is really grim. People are just so livid right now. It's bad. Just bad.' 
Among those who responded to the video was Donald Trump Jr., who said in a bizarre video rant 'that it makes him fear for the 'future of the country' and asked if the parents of those affected would 'call in to complain' because their kids didn't get a 'participation medal.'
During the rant he backed publisher Fred Ryan, who has sparked his own furious backlash, saying that the journalist 'ran the paper into the ground' with their '
In October, Rupert Murdoch started a process that could reunite his media empire, News Corp and Fox Corp. Murdoch first bought the company for $5 billion, or $60 a share, in 2007. In 2019, the company posted revenues of $1.9 billion.
The proposal has, however, been met with stern opposition from several shareholders who say a combination on its own would fail to realize the full value of News Corp and have instead suggested a spin-off of the media company's digital real estate business or Dow Jones as an alternative to the merger. 
The iconic newspaper was purchased by Jeff Bezos in 2013 but it's believed the Amazon founder has lost interest in the brand
Craig Huber, media analyst at Huber Research Partners, said he would be 'shocked' if Murdoch sold the Wall Street Journal and has likely told his family not to sell it either.
'The WSJ is a trophy property to the Murdoch family,' he said, adding that the speculation is likely a result of his plan to reunite his media empire.
After reports surrounding the possible takeover emerged, NewsCorp shares climbed nearly five percent to $18.08. Overall, the company's shares are down 18 percent in 2022.
In August, sources familiar with the Washington Post's finances told 
 that The Post now has fewer than the three million digital subscribers it hailed in 2020, and that digital ad revenue fell to $70 million during the first half of 2022, a 15 percent decrease from last year.
In the years after Bezos purchased The Post in 2013, the company saw a significant boom in business, with its newsroom doubling in size as it gathered hundreds of new journalists.
Sources claim Ryan has been a controversial figure in the office, with many worried about his direction for the company.
They added that the publisher has been monitoring how many people come into the office after COVID restrictions were lifted and is now weighing threats of firing those who continue to work from home.
Sources said that Bezos had been a regular presence at The Post in the first few years after purchasing the paper, but his visits have become a rare occurrence following the COVID-19 shutdowns.
Running the paper has fallen onto Ryan, 67, a former official in the Reagan administration and chief executive of Politico.
The Washington Post saw its digital ad revenue fall to $70 million during the first half of 2022, a 15 percent decrease from last year. Many are frustrated over the leadership of chief executive Fred Ryan (left) who was appointed by billionaire Jeff Bezos (right)
Last year, sources said Ryan held an internal strategic review with The Post's top team. Several executives concluded that the paper should purchase global rivals to expand its brand overseas.
Ryan, however, has allegedly put the plan on a backburner, much to the frustration of The Post's marketing team, sources told the Times.
The sources added that the paper hired a team of marketers for advertisement purposes, but several ads never ran.
The alleged trouble at The Post comes after several journalists who covered the pandemic penned a letter to Ryan over his attempt to crack down on working from home.
'Such decisions are extremely personal and consequential,' the letter said, 'and we urge management to allow employees to make these decisions without fear of punishment from their employer.'
But while the paper enjoyed a boost in subscriptions and readership, things took a downturn in early 2021, after Donald Trump left the presidency.
The Post, which saw a surge of activity through their extensive coverage of the Trump administration, had trouble bouncing back once he left office, sources told the Times.
They said many have grown frustrated over Ryan's leadership, who was appointed by Bezos, for failing to expand and diversify the outlet's coverage during that critical moment.
Political analyst Chris Cillizza, 46, who has been covering national politics, the White House and Congress for the cable giant and who came over to the network from The Washington Post in 2017 was among those who were let go this week, Variety reported
The cable news giant also scrapped all of HLN's live programming, including longtime host Robin Meade, 53, who was with the Atlanta-based morning show for more than 21 years. She was one of the highest paid anchors
Chris Cillizza sent out a tweet sharing the news with his peers 
Earlier this month, major layoffs were announced at CNN. Among the high profile releases was political analyst Chris Cillizza, 46, who has been covering national politics, the White House and Congress for the cable giant since 2017, after coming over to the network from The Washington Post.
Cillizza tweeted Thursday afternoon, stating, 'my time at CNN was an absolute blast. I got to work with smart and dedicated journalists everyday,' he said.
In a memo, CNN CEO Chris Licht wrote, in part: 'I know these changes affect both our departing colleagues and those who remain,' he said. 'And we have resources to support you.' 
The cable news giant also scrapped all of HLN's live programming, including longtime host Robin Meade, 53, who was with the weekday Atlanta-based morning show for more than 21 years. It is estimated that her annual salary is $3 million, making her one of the highest paid female anchors in the business.
The layoffs were announced in this email sent by Licht 
Michael Bloomberg interested in acquiring Dow Jones, Washington Post
Washington Post’s Business Struggles as Frustrations Mount - The New York Times
'The mood is really grim': Washington Post staffers lived at publisher Fred Ryan after layoff announcement | CNN Business
Share or comment on this article: 
Michael Bloomberg is interested in buying either Dow Jones or the Jeff Bezos owned Washington Post
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
