Tennessee teacher is quitting because people who oppose pride flag are 'taking over' education  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
'It's not worth it anymore': Tennessee teacher says she’s quitting because the 'type of people' who oppose her pride flag are 'taking over' education
A Tennessee high school teacher says she's quitting over her pride flag
The flag was seen in Randi Lee's classroom during a TikTok video
Lee later said that her promise didn't mean she was going to quit 'today' 
 22:27, 25 January 2023 
 22:27, 25 January 2023 
 high school teacher went viral after she said in a 
 video that she was quitting her job after being called a groomer on social media over the presence of a pride flag in her classroom. 
Randi Lee was responding to a comment left on her TikTok by an anonymous person who wrote: 'You should quit - I see the groomer flag in the background.'
Lee, 30, said in the clip, which has since been posted by the previously banned 
 'Here's the thing, I am going to quit. I am 100 percent going to quit.' 
She added that while she wasn't quitting because of that specific quote, it was because people like the commenter are 'taking over education.' 
In a video that went viral thanks to Libs of Tik Tok, teacher Randi Lee said that she plans to quit because 'education is not what it once was'
Lee went on to say: 'Education is not what it once was and it's not worth it anymore. I support every single one of my students no matter what they're views are.' 
The video ends with Lee pointing to the comment and saying: 'This... it... just... get f****d.'
REVEALED: Shocking underage antics at LSU hangout Reggie's -...
Seal of approval! Libs of TikTok founder Chaya Raichik...
After the video went viral, Lee posted a new video addressing many of the commenters who were asking about when she was going to quit. 
In response to one commenter who asked: 'When are you quitting? Trying to plan the celebration.' 
Lee said that in her original video, she didn't mean that she was quitting 'tomorrow' and said: 'I'm trying to buy a house. I gotta stay employed.' 
In this photo, you can see the pride flag in the background on the wall of Lee's classroom
She also joked that she would let her followers know when she was quitting because she 'loves a party.'
Lee told DailyMail.com: 'Regarding me announcing I’m quitting, that isn’t necessarily a big announcement. I decided at the beginning of the school year that I only had one or two more years left in me.'
She added: 'Everyone is just running with that sentence from the video.' 
Lee has been working in the school district since 2017 having graduated from the University of Memphis
When asked about those who criticize the presence of the pride flag in her class room and compare it to a 'grooming flag,' Lee said: 'I think they’ve never been inside a classroom after graduating high school.'
She added: 'Everyone has an opinion about education because it’s something everyone has experienced at some point or another. But until they actually experience what’s it’s like to be a teacher or even a student in today’s world, they have no idea.
'Displaying a flag often indicates a safe person, especially with the violent rhetoric and physical violence the LGBTQ community has experienced.' 
On her brief TikTok bio, Lee says: 'Sometimes I teach teenagers. Catch me on eight wheels
On her brief TikTok bio, Lee says: 'Sometimes I teach teenagers. Catch me on eight wheels.' 
The latter being an apparent reference to her hobby of roller derby in Memphis. She jokes on her Instagram page's bio: 'Average at parenting, teaching and, roller derby.' 
Chaya Raichik (left) posted a picture with a smiling Donald Trump, in the wake of Lee's video the teacher posted on Instagram: 'I'm beginning to think Chaya is obsessed with me'
Posts on her profile so that she is married with two children. In the fallout from the Libs of TikTok posting her video, Lee said on Instagram: 'I'm beginning to think Chaya is obsessed with me.' 
A reference to the founder of the account, Brooklyn-based real estate agent 
Libs of TikTok, which was manned by Raichik anonymously until she revealed herself last year, reposts content by left-wing creators, often mocking their woke politics and social commentary. 
Issues surrounding gender reassignment and children's participation at drag events are among some of the topics Libs of TikTok frequently posts about. 
In June 2022, Lee's roller derby was covered in a feature by 
A month before that, Lee also went viral when she was criticized for a video in which she said that she regularly spoke about race in the classroom. 
In the clip, Lee said that she 'bucks the system on a regular basis' by talking about race during math class. 
Lee previously went viral when she was criticized for a video in which she said that she regularly spoke about race in the classroom
According to Lee's LinkedIn page, the controversial educator is a graduate of the University of Memphis where she attained a BA and Master's in Social Work. While at the school, she became a member of the Phi Alpha Honor Society. 
She has been employed by the Memphis-Shelby County Schools since July 2017.  Lee is a special education teacher at Raleigh-Egypt High School. 
Lee's rant has gained the attention of conservative activists across Twitter. Robby Starbuck said: 'Congrats Tennessee! Our work to stop the grooming of children in school is more and more successful by the day.'
Starbuck went on: 'Now even radical teachers we've called out are promising to quit because of it. This is just the start. Sanity &amp; safety will be restored.' 
While Ty's Tough Talk said: '"I’m so upset I can’t indoctrinate your children anymore so I’m quitting my job." That’s all I got from this.' 
Memphis Roller Derby returns | localmemphis.com
Share or comment on this article: 
Tennessee teacher is quitting because people who oppose pride flag are 'taking over' education 
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
