Waitrose bans Warburtons from shelves to disgust of shoppers | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Waitrose bans Warburtons from shelves to disgust of shoppers: Supermarket giant's crumpet sales take a hit after mysteriously removing Brexit-backing family brand from shelves in 'row over performance'
The baker, run by pro-Brexit Jonathan Warburton, sells 124m crumpets per year
Waitrose said the Bolton baker's 'performance didn't meet expectations'
Customers have demanded a U-turn or threatened to shop elsewhere now 
Mr Warburton backed Brexit in 2016 and baker has donated to the Conservatives
Richard Marsden for the Daily Mail
 14:00, 12 January 2023 
 11:43, 13 January 2023 
 has mysteriously axed all Warburtons' products including its much-loved crumpets sparking fury amongst customers who today vowed to shop elsewhere.
The baker, run by pro-Brexit Jonathan Warburton, sells 124million of the griddled teatime treats in the UK annually but these and other breads were all pulled from the supermarket's shelves last year.
Sales of crumpets in the UK are up ten per cent year-on-year, but mysteriously Waitrose has axed its deal with the country's biggest producer, Warburtons, at a time when the supermarket's own crumpet sales reportedly fell by 15 per cent.
The supermarket has said the baker's 'performance didn't meet their expectations'. Warburtons said: 'Consumers recognise the quality. We would of course love to be back on their shelves in the future.' 
The row has divided customers. Fans of the popular brand declared they would shop elsewhere to find their favourite crumpets, while others said they preferred Waitrose own-brand anyway.
This move by the food store has been seen as an insult and ‘grave error’ by the workers who produce Britain’s favourite crumpets to a family recipe that dates back 30 years. 
And Brexiteers claimed the middle-class supermarket's decision 'must be' because its owner backed Britain leaving the EU while Remainers seized upon the row, declaring: 'Warburtons supported Brexit, made this country suffer. It's only fair now they suffer'.
Robert De Niro starring in an advert with chairman of the baking business, Jonathan Warburton, who said Brexit would be good for Britain. Waitrose has pulled all its products over 'performance'
This Waitrose customer says he will be shopping elsewhere, namely Sainsbury's
One social media user was among those who insisted Brexit was a factor
Another customer said that they 'completely disagree' with the decision
Labour Remainers stage fresh push as Sadiq Khan urges Keir...
Moment '30p Lee' Anderson rips hat off Stop Brexit Man Steve...
Boris Johnson tells Tories: Here's how we WILL beat 'Captain...
DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Rein in the wreckers to keep the public...
Jonathan Warburton: Fifth generation Bolton baker who's built his family firm into Britain's biggest bakery brand  
Bakery boss Jonathan Warburton in one of their ads
Warburton's began in 1876 when Ellen Warburton started making bread in the grocery shop she ran with her husband, Thomas, in Bolton. 
The current chairman, Jonathan, is in the fifth generation of the family and has held the position of chairman since 2001. 
The 65-year-old began his career at other businesses, including consumer goods giant Unilever, before joining the family firm aged 23.  In 1991 he gained full control of the business along with his cousins, Brett and Ross, after their fathers retired. 
As chair, he's been credited with overseeing the company's transition into the nation's biggest bakery brand. According to a company biography, he's a keen skier and golfer, and has four children with his wife, Kim. 
In 2021, he achieved unlikely fame when he appeared in an advert alongside George Clooney. Other stars to have appeared in the company's ads include Sylvester Stallone and Robert De Niro. 
Ian Hodson, president of the Bakers, Food and Allied Workers’ Union, which represents many of Warburtons’ 5,000 staff criticised the move.
‘The people who work for Warburtons work to the highest level to create a product that is always rated as number one in the industry,’ he said.
‘I know our members who work there would be disappointed in Warburtons’ treatment by Waitrose. I think it’s a grave error.
‘I think shoppers have said in the way they continuously buy Warburtons that they are in favour of their products. Warburtons’ crumpets are the best on the market, in my opinion.
‘I would defend what Warburtons’ thousands of workers are doing at sites around the country. They are an incredibly hard-working people and they don’t deserve their treatment by Waitrose,’ he said.
Speaking outside Warburtons’ bakery and head office in Bolton, one worker, who would only give his first name of Josh, said: ‘Waitrose obviously has ideas above its station. They must think they are too posh for our crumpets.’
A colleague, who would only give his first name, Paul, said: ‘There is absolutely nothing wrong with the quality of our crumpets.
The crumpet and its flatter predecessor, the pikelet, are thought to have been a staple of the British diet since the 1600s.
And while they are most popularly eaten slathered with butter for breakfast, many add far more exotic toppings from honey to posh cheeses, Continental hams and smashed avocado.
Warburtons insisted there can be no question about the quality of its crumpets, which tend to be slightly thicker than rivals.
A source said: ‘We know for sure it had nothing to do with taste and quality.’
‘The Warburtons name is one of the most famous in the UK! There must be another reason why they’ve stopped selling them which we are not being told about.’
One customer tweeted Waitrose to say: 'I completely disagree with your decision to delist @Warburtons products. Their excellent crumpets are a nation's favourite'. But another pointed out: 'There MUST be a Brexit angle to this, surely?' One more customer said: '@waitrose having a spat with @Warburtons - will be shopping at Sainsbury's then. Ain't doing without!'
Critics have raised the politics of the Bolton bakery's owner, who after the 2016 
 referendum declared: 'Brexit is a very good thing to have happened'. 
Mr Warburton, who stars in its adverts alongside George Clooney, Robert De Niro and The Muppets, also agreed the company could make a £25,000 donation to the Conservative Party in 2010. 
Some have vowed to boycott Waitrose completely over a row rumbling on for a year that is reminiscent of a 2022 dispute between Tesco and Heinz that saw baked beans and ketchup disappear from the shelves. 
One social media user shared a Waitrose post from 2022, they claim has been deleted. The post says that fewer Warburtons products were being stocked because other products were more popular. 
Waitrose has been bombarded with messages on social media about why Warburtons' bread and associated products are no longer on offer. 
MailOnline has asked both Waitrose and Warburtons to comment. 
Sources on both sides said it was for commercial reasons, not Britain leaving the EU.
But some Remainers have delighted in the decision - having campaigned for Waitrose and other supermarkets to stop stocking Warburtons due to its Brexit-backing boss.
One said: 'This is totally deserved. Warburtons supported Brexit, made this country suffer. It's only fair now they suffer as much or more than the rest of us for it. Their customers have spoken. #RejoinEU'.
Another tweeted: 'I'm delighted to read that have withdrawn all Warburtons products from its shelves as they were 'below expectations'. Mind you, I'd prefer that they weren't stocked at all, as Warburtons were brexit supporters'.
One remainer said sarcastically: 'That would be the same Warburtons that supports Brexit? What a shame'.
Waitrose this weekend claimed that Warburtons' 'performance didn't meet our expectations', in a rebuke which caused the bakery's chairman Jonathan Warburton to call the removal of his products from the shelves of stores across the country 'a shame'.
One Twitter user shared this post from Facebook, claiming it was deleted, where Waitrose said 'other brands are proving more popular'
Remainers celebrated the decision because the boss of Warburtons supported Brexit
Others begged for their favorites to return
Dame Sharon White: Pioneering businesswoman voted Britain's most influential black person who chairs the John Lewis Partnership - Waitrose's ultimate owner 
Sharon White chairs the John Lewis Partnership, which is the owner of Waitrose  
The John Lewis Partnership - which owns Waitrose - appointed Sharon White as the first ever female chairwoman in its 157-year history in 2019. 
White left her job as chief executive of Ofcom to take over from former chairman of the retailer Sir Charlie Mayfield at the beginning of 2020.
Cambridge-educated Ms White was the first black person to become Permanent Secretary to the Treasury.
In interviews she's recalled how - when she began there in the 90s - the only other black women were 'cleaning loos'. 
Ms White is married to Robert Chote, who is Chair of the UK Statistics Authority and The Northern Ireland Fiscal Council, with whom she has two children. The couple have been repeatedly dubbed 'Mr and Mrs Treasury'. 
The mother-of-two was rumoured to be in the running to become the next Governor of the Bank of England, a £480,000-a-year role. 
After becoming Second Permanent Secretary in 2013, The Voice named Ms White as the seventh most powerful black person in Britain.
She was born to Jamaican immigrant parents and was brought up in Leyton, east London, where she went to a state secondary school. 
Ms White graduated from Cambridge with an economics degree before studying for her Master's at University College London.
Recently, she's complained about the John Lewis Group's lagging performance and warned staff may lose their bonus. 
Shoppers have express their anger and demanded the products return to their shelves, claiming that own brand crumpets and rival Hovis' are not to the same standard. 
The supermarket still holds products from Buckinghamshire-based Hovis, Warburton's biggest competitor.
Waitrose isolated among top grocers, with rival supermarket chains Tesco and Sainsbury's still stocking Warburtons products. 
It is likely to heap pressure on Waitrose boss James Bailey, who has struggled to prevent the supermarket losing ground to rivals.
Areport found Waitrose's share of the grocery market at the end of December had fallen to 4.7 per cent from 5.1 per cent a year earlier.
A Warburtons spokesperson told MailOnline: 'At Warburtons quality is paramount. We put an awful lot of care into the 2million products we bake and deliver to over 19,000 stores across the country every single day. 
'We know that consumers recognise the quality, and value of our products and that is why we are the number one bakery brand in the UK. 
'It is a shame that Waitrose chose to delist us last year and we would of course love to be back on their shelves in the future.' 
A Waitrose spokesman said: 'We stopped selling Warburtons products a year ago after their performance didn't meet our expectations. 
'We focus on fantastic products at great value that our customers love and we remain open to working with Warburtons in the future.' 
Reacting to the move, furious shoppers tweeted: 'Oh gosh @waitrose - please don't let @Warburtons go. They've always been delicious whenever I've bought them #crumpets'. 
Another said: '@waitrose I completely disagree with your decision to delist @Warburtons products. Among others their excellent crumpets are a Nation's favourite &amp; their Wholemeal ''no added sugar'' sliced loaf is perfect, just two examples of their superior quality products. Please reconsider'. 
A third tweeted: '@Warburtons @Waitrose sorry to hear about your falling out with Waitrose - I'm going to miss your products'. 
Warburtons was founded by Thomas Warburton in 1876 and is based in Bolton, Greater Manchester.
For much of its history Warburtons only had bakeries in Lancashire and it remains a family-owned company.
The company - which currently employs almost 5,000 members of staff - embarked on a large expansion program in the late 1990s which continued in the 2000s and it has grown across the UK after being relatively unheard of outside the Bolton and Manchester area.
Waitrose said: 'We stopped selling Warburtons products a year ago after their performance didn't meet our expectations. We focus on fantastic products at great value that our customers love and we remain open to working with Warburtons in the future.'
The supermarket product wars that have divided customers  
Last year, Tesco pulled Heinz baked beans and ketchup from its shelves across the UK. 
The US food manufacturer had paused the supply of its items in a row that raised questions over who should bear the biggest cost in the current economic climate.
Tesco had said it 'will not pass on unjustifiable price increases to our customers'.
In a joint statement, the companies said: 'Tesco and Heinz are pleased to have reached an agreement that will see the full range of Heinz products return to Tesco shelves and online, continuing to offer our customers great value on the nation's favourite Heinz varieties.
'Lorries full of Heinz products including Heinz Tomato Ketchup and Heinz Beanz will hit the road shortly, and Tesco colleagues will be working hard to ensure shelves are filled again over the coming days.'
In 2016, Tesco axed a range of Unilever products from its shelves, including Marmite.
Tesco fought moves by Unilever to raise its prices in the UK to 
compensate for the sharp drop in the pound's value.
Unilever's finance chief said such price increases are a 'normal' reaction to shifts in currency values.
A deal was reached within 24 hours of that row going public after the share price of both companies fell. 
Also last year, Colgate began disappearing from Tesco shelves after a similar fall-out with US consumer products giant Colgate-Palmolive.
Last year it was Britain's sixth biggest food and beverage brand, ahead of McVities, Birds Eye and Pepsi, according to consultancy Nielsen.
In recent years, it has tried 
to stem the drop in sales from its packaged bread products with new bagel and wrap categories.
Robert De Niro to appear as the mafia-style Bagel Boss for its advertising.
Others such as George Clooney, Sylvester Stallone, the Muppets, including Kermit the Frog, and Peter Kay have also been given starring roles. 
The row between Waitrose and Warburtons is likely to draw parallels betwen the spat between Tesco and Heinz last year, when Heinz baked beans and ketchup were pulled from the shelves after attempts by the US brand to increase prices were ignored by the supermarket.
Jars of Marmite were pulled from Tesco shelves in 2016 as the supermarket resisted an attempt by Unilever to raise wholesale prices.
Warburtons: 147-year-old British family-owned baking business from Bolton which turned to Robert DeNiro's talents to shore up sales 
Warburtons was founded by Thomas Warburton in 1876 and is based in Bolton, Greater Manchester.
For much of its history Warburtons only had bakeries in Lancashire and it remains a family-owned company.
The company - which currently employs almost 5,000 members of staff - embarked on a large expansion program in the late 1990s which continued in the 2000s and it has grown across the UK after being relatively unheard of outside the Bolton and Manchester area.
Last year it was Britain's sixth biggest food and beverage brand, ahead of McVities, Birds Eye and Pepsi, according to consultancy Nielsen.
In recent years, it has tried 
to stem the drop in sales from its packaged bread products with new bagel and wrap categories.
Robert De Niro to appear as the mafia-style Bagel Boss for its advertising.
Share or comment on this article: 
Waitrose bans Warburtons from shelves to disgust of shoppers
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
