Astronaut Tim Peake praises military 'doing a superb job' at Gatwick where he suffered 'no delays' | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Stellar performance! British astronaut Tim Peake praises military 'doing a superb job' at Gatwick where he suffered 'no delays' - as troops stand in for striking Border Force staff
Border Force staff have been striking over busiest Christmas in three years
Around 1,000 staff are on strike and the Armed Forces have stepped in 
British astronaut Tim Peake praised military for seamless experience at Gatwick
 11:40, 25 December 2022 
 11:40, 25 December 2022 
British astronaut Tim Peake has heaped praise on the efficiency of the military who have stepped at airports across the UK to replace the striking Border Force workers. 
There had been fears of disorder and long queues at passport controls due to Border Force staff striking every day for the rest of the year, except December 27.
However to the relief of travellers, military personnel have kept long delays at bay across the country's six major airports.
Tim Peake, a British Army Air Corps officer who spent 185 days in space, went online to thank the Armed Forces for their 'superb job'.
Astronaut Tim Peake thanked the Armed Forces for their 'superb job' at border control in airports over Christmas
Armed Forces at Heathrow Airport's Terminal 2 on the first day of the Border Force strike
The Armed Forces stepped in to cover the strikes at Heathrow Airport on Friday
Tim Peake posted praise of military personnel and then defended them against critics
Around 1,000 members of the Public and Commercial Services (PCS) union who 
 at Heathrow, Birmingham, Cardiff, Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester airports.
Mr Peake tweeted: 'Couldn't be more proud of our military. Just come through @Gatwick_Airport, thank you to our service personnel for doing a superb job - no delays.  #workingchristmas.'
Though Twitter user Robin replied: 'Utter tripe Mr Peake. Now, I like you as an astronaut, but you do realise that the Army personnel have been waving through arrivals with no checks, and this makes it look like they do a better job than those justifiably on strike. Don't be gaslight - you're an astronaut!'
To which Mr Peake replied: 'No waving through going on that I saw. Every passport scanned and checked against individuals and appropriate questions asked.
'Not an easy time for anyone to be on duty, military or civilian.'
Members of the PCS union on the picket line near Heathrow airport
The Home Office brought in personnel from the Army, Royal Air Force and Royal Navy
to help at Heathrow, Birmingham, Cardiff, Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester airports, and the port of Newhaven in East Sussex.
: 'I am sorry to hear that members of our Armed Forces have had to cancel their Christmas leave to keep this country moving, so greedy union bosses can play politics.
'The fact they've done such a great job will be of no surprise to any of us and shows why they are so valued by the public, who are now turning against those trying to hold us all to ransom.
'All some are demonstrating is that we can manage perfectly well without them.'
Lichfield MP Michael Fabricant said: 'This only goes to show what a huge debt of gratitude we owe our Armed Forces whether it be assisting the Ukrainian military or here, at our borders.'
'Unions are taking our brave Armed Forces away from their day job,' said Ashfield MP Lee Anderson. 'Our Armed Forces do not strike they just get on with the job.'
Two Border Force staff members told Sky News that military personnel were being waved through border checks to avoid queues during the strikes and claimed they do not have the power to stop or detain people. 
Soldiers reportedly 'can't stop or detain people' as they cannot issue a form known as an IS81 - which gives immigration officers the authority to detain people for further questioning.
The Home Office told Sky News it was 'categorically untrue' any arrivals were not being properly checked.
A spokesman said: 'Border Force has developed robust contingency plans which prioritise keeping our citizens safe and our borders secure.
'Non-striking Border Force staff, with the full range of appropriate powers, are continuing to complete their vital roles and we have spread our resources flexibly to ensure there is sufficient cover to fulfil our key priorities.
'Military personnel, civil servants and volunteers are supporting a range of services and all deployed contingency are sufficiently trained for the activities they are required to undertake.'
Rail strikes also left passengers 'very irritated' yesterday as they rushed to get the last trains before Christmas Eve services came to a halt - while Britain's roads were braced for extra traffic as a consequence of train staff strikes.
People embarking on festive getaways or heading home for the holidays gathered on the concourses of major stations including Euston in London and Birmingham New Street.
A walkout by thousands of members of the Rail, Maritime and Transport union (RMT) at Network Rail means trains were due to stop running early, and some routes had no services all day.
Royal Mail workers also walked out for several days through November and December due to a long-running dispute with the Government over pay, jobs and conditions. 
 While nurses and ambulance workers have Ambulance workers held strikes over pay and staffing in the past month. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Astronaut Tim Peake praises military 'doing a superb job' at Gatwick where he suffered 'no delays'
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
