Sadiq Khan is 'pricing Londoners out of London' with ULEZ and council tax and TfL hikes | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Londoners revolt against Sadiq Khan: Mayor is accused of 'pricing people out of the capital' as he faces legal battle over controversial ULEZ-expansion and backlash over council tax and public transport fare hikes
Sadiq Khan accused of 'pricing Londoners out of London' by furious residents
London mayor facing open revolt from boroughs and residents over price hikes
TfL prices will rise nearly 6% from March while council tax is also set to increase 
Legal battle is also threatening Mr Khan's plans to expand the ULEZ from August 
Rory Tingle, Home Affairs Correspondent For Mailonline
 12:47, 19 January 2023 
 15:22, 19 January 2023 
 was today accused of pricing Londoners out of the capital after unveiling controversial plans to hike transport and council tax amid the cost-of-living crisis.
 piled fresh misery on Londoners yesterday after revealing proposals to hike 
 fares by nearly six percent from March and council tax bills by £38.55 a year to fund more PCSOs. 
The latest blow to household finances, amid a cost-of-living crisis that has already stretched budgets, comes as a bitter legal battle brews over Mr Khan's contentious bid to expand the Ultra Low Emission Zone.
London boroughs have continued their open revolt against the mayor's policies after four suburbs said they would challenge the ULEZ expansion after two councils said they will refuse to allow TfL cameras onto their roads. 
London Mayor Sadiq Khan announced plans to hit Londoners with steep rises to public transport fares and council tax 
The ultra-low emission zone is to be expanded in August to cover the whole of Greater London - seen here in purple 
The plan means the weekly cap for using buses and trams in the capital is set to increase by £1.40 to £24.70
Tube passengers will see the weekly cap for travel in zones one and three rise by £3 to £48
 to £24.70. Tube passengers will see the weekly cap for travel in zones one and three rise by £3 to £48.
Passengers will now face paying £2.80 for a zone 1 peak ticket - a rise of 12 per cent - and £2.70 off-peak. Most other single fares will rise by 10p. Bus fares will rise by 10p to £1.75, while a weekly bus and tram pass will hit £24.70 - an increase of £1.40. 
Matthew Goodwin-Freeman, Conservative councillor at Harrow Council, slammed the plans and said the Mayor was 'pricing Londoners out of London'.
The average increase of 5.9 per cent across all modes of transport will kick in from March 5 - and mirrors the cap set by the Department for Transport (DfT) for regulated rail fare rises in England from the same date. 
A ban introduced at the start of the pandemic on Londoners over 60 travelling for free before 9am is being made permanent from Wednesday - a move that will anger many thousands of pensioners but which will generate £40m a year in extra fares. 
Labour Remainers stage fresh push as Sadiq Khan urges Keir...
Sadiq Khan is accused of ignoring more than 5,000 votes from...
Rishi Sunak demands Met Police chief takes urgent action...
Reacting to the move, Abigail Wood, chief executive of charity Age UK London, said: 'We are devastated that the voices of older Londoners have been ignored.
'Affordable transport is a lifeline, not a luxury, and this cut penalises them with no choice about when and how they travel.
'Age UK London is deeply concerned this comes at the worst possible time as the cost-of-living crisis worsens and more and more older Londoners are plunged into poverty.
Breakdown of the price rises for London passengers  
Zone 1 peak - up 30p (12%) to £2.80  
Zone 1 off-peak - up 20p to £2.70
Most single fares - up 10p
Daily cap up 30p to £5.25
7-day bus and tram pass up £1.40 to £24.70
Daily cap on Tube or rail travel in zones 1 to 4 up by 70p to £11.70
Weekly zones 1 to 6 travelcard up by £4 to £74.50
'One in four older Londoners live in poverty - the highest level in the country - and London has some of the highest living costs in the world. This is the wrong decision at the worst possible time.' 
Michael Roberts, chief executive of pasenger group London TravelWatch, said: 'Many Londoners are already feeling the pinch with cost-of-living pressures so this fares rise of 5.9 per cent across TfL services will be challenging for many people.
'More people use the bus every day in the capital than any other type of transport. Buses are used most by lower income Londoners, so we are particularly disappointed that these fares were not capped.'
Sian Berry, Green London Assembly Member, tweeted: 'In November I warned the Mayor against following inflation to a bus fare of £2 - and reminded him of his manifesto pledge (!) to keep bus costs down. 
'The fairest thing for Londoners today would be the bus fare freeze I asked for.'
It comes as Bromley council leader Colin Smith said his borough would work alongside Tory-run councils Harrow, Bexley, and Hillingdon to 'examine the legal basis' of the ULEZ expansion.
Harrow, Hillingdon, Croydon, Sutton, Bromley, Bexley, Havering and Kingston have all expressed a willingness to challenge City Hall over the controversial scheme that will see around 200,000 motorists with older vehicles hit with daily £12.50 charges.
Should they pass, the plans would see the ultra-low emission zone (ULEZ) widened to cover the whole of Greater London, beyond the M25 and into the home counties in some areas. 
Sutton and Harrow have already confirmed they will refuse to sign 'section 8' agreements that will allow TfL to install cameras on roads under council control. 
There was widespread fury on social media as news emerged of Sadiq Khan's double whammy of council tax and TfL fare hikes
London boroughs continue their open revolt against Mr Khan's policies after four suburbs said they would challenge his contentious bid to expand the Ultra Low Emission Zone 
 while consultations were underway to expand the Ulez.
If included, the level of opposition would have risen to 62.4 per cent - nearly two-thirds.
Minister for London Paul Scully MP said the situation was 'very concerning' and demanded the London Assembly 'investigate this further'. 
The scheme is being expanded amid a huge black hole in City Hall's finances following the Covid-19 pandemic, sparking accusations Mr Khan is using motorists as 'cash cows' to fill it. 
Mr Khan has expressed optimism that the expansion will proceed as planned on August 29, telling Mayor's Question Time that it was a 'critical step' in tackling pollution in the capital. 
'We cannot delay. Londoners' lives depend on urgent action to clean up the air,'  he said. 
Howard Cox, founder of the FairFuelUK campaign, said: 'The UK's most unchecked politician deploys any pick-and-mix policy to suit his own personal agenda.
'London's Mayor is incapable of anything else but self-centred politics and that's why I ask transport ministers again to cancel this cash-grabbing scheme that will make no difference to the air we breathe.'
A spokesman for the Mayor responded: 'Around 4,000 Londoners die prematurely each year due to the toxic air in our city with the greatest number of deaths attributable to air pollution in London's outer boroughs.
'The Mayor is committed to doing all he can to build a greener, safer London for everyone.
'He has listened to Londoners throughout this process, which is why he's announced the biggest scrappage scheme yet.'
City Hall insisted the expansion was 'necessary' to cut congestion and pollution, but suggested the mayor is considering 'further support' for care workers
Meanwhile, Mr Khan also set out plans to increase council tax to fund an extra 500 Police Community Support Officers (PCSOs), representing a 50% rise in the number of officers.
He is planning to increase his share of council tax bills for the average band D property by £38.55 a year from April, including £15 for investment in policing.
In all, a typical household will now be expected to pay City Hall over £434 each year for transport, policing and fire and rescue service - before other bills and local services are accounted for.
Addressing the fare rises, Mr Khan said yesterday: 'I froze TfL fares for five years from 2016 to make transport more affordable for millions of Londoners.
'But my hands have been tied since the pandemic by the strict conditions set by the Government in the recent emergency funding agreement for TfL, which means fares have to be increased in London by the same amount as national rail fares - 5.9%.
'This is a challenging time for our city, with a Government that is not fully funding our public services, but I'm determined to step up so that we can continue building a greener, safer and fairer London for everyone.'
Mr Khan also announced that the suspension of free travel before 9am on weekdays for people aged 60 and over will be permanent.
The benefit was withdrawn in June 2020 as part of a coronavirus funding agreement between TfL and the Government.
Peter Fortune, deputy leader of the Greater London Authority Conservatives, said: 'London is now facing a major cost of Khan crisis.
'Sadiq Khan's council tax will have risen 57 per cent since he was elected, as he hits Londoners with another big increase in fares.'
Nickie Aiken, Conservative MP for Cities of London &amp; Westminster, said the mayor was 'costing Londoners money'.
She said: 'In a cost of living crisis, when people are desperately trying to make the end of the month work for them for their pay, he's putting up taxes.'
Adam Tyndall, programme director for transport at BusinessLDN, said: 'Increasing fares goes against the tide of progressive cities making public transport cheaper and more accessible to expand ridership, boost their economies, and tackle the climate emergency. 
'Without a similar plan, London is at risk of falling further behind international counterparts.' 
The Met Police welcomed the additional community support officers, with Assistant Commissioner Louise Rolfe saying: 'Community policing is the Met's foundation and we will do everything we can to make our service to communities as strong as possible, through visible policing in neighbourhoods with police officers and PCSOs - who know what matters to local people - by reducing local crime, and building strong, trusted, local partnerships to fix local problems.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Sadiq Khan is 'pricing Londoners out of London' with ULEZ and council tax and TfL hikes
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
