Anna Duggar visits husband Josh 'regularly' with their seven children as in Texas prison | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rioters attack police on Cardiff estate in angry scenes after 'serious road crash' - but force hits back at social media 'chase' rumours and insist accident had 'already occured' when they arrived
Christian is banned from teaching for misgendering a trans pupil 'in first case of its kind in UK' - but he defiantly vows to appeal after saying he is 'devastated' by ruling
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
I'm an A&E consultant and this why I believe vapes should be be banned from shops
Blur frontman Damon Albarn upsets his parish council with a 'noisy eyesore' at his huge farmhouse in Devon
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' and says Phillip Schofield was 'entitled to a better send off from's exit from This Morning
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
Dominic Raab to stand down as MP at next election after being forced to quit Rishi Sunak's cabinet over bullying allegations
DR MARTIN SCURR: Why do I always have to cough after eating?
The best places to stay in the WORLD in 2023: Scarborough B&B named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
The £15 loaf of sourdough that 'helps you sleep, boosts your immune system, lowers your blood pressure and cuts your stress'
Ignore Keir Starmer's vacuous promises. Labour's fanatical ideology means it can never cure the sickness in the NHS, writes leading oncologist KAROL SIKORA
Hundreds outraged by woman's 'rude' and 'inconsiderate' act on three-hour flight: 'My brain can't comprehend this level of entitlement'
Plot to drive out equality chief who's standing up for women: Whistleblowers at human rights commission reveal boss is facing 'witch hunt' from trans lobby
How a gender battle engulfed Britain's equalities watchdog: Baroness faced backlash from left-wing MPs after publicly backing female-only spaces
ANDREW PIERCE: The 5ft heroine standing up to a campaign of hatred by the militant trans lobby
DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Who are the real bullies in trans row?
Anna Duggar visits her husband Josh 'regularly' with their seven children as he languishes in 'dangerous' Texas prison while serving 12-year sentence for having stash of child pornography
Disgraced reality TV star Josh Duggar's family visits him regularly in prison
Duggar, 34, was sentence to 151-months in prison for possessing child porn
A source said his wife and seven children are frequent visitors at his Texas jail
The disgraced star grew up starring in the TLC show 19 Kids and Counting
 17:43, 22 January 2023 
 22:31, 22 January 2023 
The wife and family of disgraced reality TV star 
 regularly visit him as he serves his 151-month prison sentence for possession of child pornography, sources have said.
Duggar, 34, who grew up starring in the TLC show 19 Kids and Counting, was found guilty last December of downloading a trove of 'the worst of the worst' child porn.
Despite his vile crime, sources told the 
 Duggar's wife Anna and their seven children visit FCI Seagoville in Dallas, 
, where he is incarcerated 'fairly regularly.' The prison is reported to be 'dangerous' and poorly run.
 he was 'restrained' by police during interrogation after his arrest, and that Caleb Williams, his employer and a registered sex offender, was the one who committed the child pornography crime.
Josh Duggar, 34, was sentence to 151-months in prison for possessing child porn
Josh Duggar with his wife Anna and their six children. He now has seven kids
The family member of another inmate at FCI Seagoville said she's seen the Duggars at the prison on numerous occasions.
'We've seen Anna at visitation fairly regularly. I've spoken to Anna a couple of times. Normally the only thing I've seen is Anna and then their kids,' they said. 'I don't really know anybody else.'
Disgraced TV star Josh Duggar accuses armed officers of...
'I'm the real Bo Jackson': SNL tears into fantasist George...
The source said the prison provided 'board games and blocks' in the visitation area to keep children occupied, but that otherwise it could be very difficult for families to visit.
She said the prison doesn't allow visitors to wear any clothing that could be viewed as provocative, and that their rules sometimes change visit to visit.
FCI Seagoville in Dallas, Texas. The prison is reported to be 'dangerous' and poorly run
Duggar with his wife and children. He was sentenced to 151-months in prison for possessing child pornography
'It's kind of a crapshoot on whatever they're going to say is out of policy today. I've had a guard tell me that I had too many bobby pins in my hair to go in or like my mask was the wrong color,' the source said.
'They tried to turn me away because I was wearing a dress. I had worn the same dress the week before and they said it was fine, but this time they said it was too sexually provocative.'
The source added that visitors are often left 'waiting for hours.'
'There's always a delay. A couple of weeks back, they said that the electricity was down. It goes in and out all the time so they use it as an excuse to make us wait for a couple of hours before we could get in.
Josh Duggar holds hands with his wife Anna while leaving court during his child pornography trial
Josh and Anna Duggar hold hands while he was on trial for possessing child pornography
The source said it can be difficult just to get inside, and that visitors are admitted on a first-come first-served basis.
'Visitation is supposed to start at 8:15am and run until 3:30pm. I get there around 7:00am just to be early in the line,' the source said. 'And they start processing us anytime between 8:15am to 9:30am. Just kind of whenever they feel like it.'
The source added that visitation usually ends up to an hour earlier than it is supposed to, and that while there sit on 'plastic chairs' in a 'really cold' room while talking to their imprisoned loved ones.
 'Sometimes there's food in the vending machines, but often it'll go for weeks at a time with nothing. It's very uncomfortable.'
'Partners are allowed to have a kiss and a hug at the beginning and the end of visitation. Up until a couple of weeks ago they actually allowed inmates and visitors to hold hands. It was really lovely.'
'But they rotated another guard onto the shift and now they're not allowing that anymore.'
Josh Duggar appeared on the TLC show 19 Kids and Counting
The Duggar family on their TLC show, 19 Kids and Counting
Sources close to the prison have previously claimed FCI Seagoville often serves inmates severely expired food, goes weeks without heat or hot water even in the dead of winter, and has a faulty power system that falls back on equally unreliable generators.
A source also told the US Sun 'there's not really much security around because they're dramatically understaffed.'
'The prison has pretty heavy politics, which means there are gangs in it. Fortunately, it is nowhere near as violent as a medium-security facility. It's not actually a very violent facility.'
'But it is just a dangerous situation, given the level of neglect and so I know that my family member has felt concerned for his, I guess I would say he's always concerned for his well-being, even if he feels physically safe.'
FCI Seagoville in Dallas, Texas. The prison reportedly is frequently without power and heat
Josh Duggar in a 2021 mug shot. He was found guilty of possessing child pornography
 Duggar made headlines in 2015 when police reports stating that he had molested four of his young sisters when he was 12 became public. His parents said he had confessed to the fondling and apologized.
During his child pornography trial  learned Duggar scoured the dark web for sick videos of little girls being tortured, humiliated and abused. 
Graphic titles such as 'pedo mom,' 'play tot sweetie', 'Daisy's destruction' and 'ultra hard pedo pedofilia', left little to the imagination. One video ended with a girl being caged in a dog kennel. Another series of images depicted a minor being raped by a male adult.
The videos were downloaded between May 14 and 16, 2019. 
The warped cache was so disturbing that a seasoned FBI child exploitation investigator said it was 'in the top five of the worst of the worst that I've ever had to examine.'
At the time of the trial, defense lawyers contended that a former employee or hacker could have exploited Duggar's lax internet security to hijack his computer and remotely download the material without anyone knowing. 
Josh Duggar (back right) with his many siblings on the show 19 Kids and Counting
Duggar is now asking for a new trial, alleging armed officers kept him from contacting his attorney and forced him into an interrogation during his arrest.
In his court filing he claimed he was 'blindsided' by the ambush and was only allowed to leave per officers' orders.
'Duggar immediately took out his phone and said he was calling his attorney. [An agent] took the phone from Duggar’s hand, preventing him from calling counsel,' the filing reads.
But, federal officials responded to Duggars claims and insisted: 'Duggar was allegedly told he was free to leave.' 
'The Government also contends Duggar was not restrained,' the filing continued. 'But restraint is about more than being handcuffed. 
'Duggar was placed in a police vehicle with two armed agents. He was told his attorney could not join him after he attempted to call counsel, and he had no access to a vehicle. 
His lawyers argued that anyone in Duggar's position should have felt 'deprived of his freedom of action in any significant way.'
Anna Duggar visits husband Josh 'regularly' with their seven children in 'dangerous' Texas prison | The US Sun
Share or comment on this article: 
Anna Duggar visits husband Josh 'regularly' with their seven children as in Texas prison
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
