Family of executed British-Iranian Alireza Akbari claim he was lured back to Iran by a 'friend'  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil: How reclusive paedophile battled neck cancer and was fed through a tube at his £5m home after shameful fall from grace
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey is slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as he clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
IOPC calls for a new national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation - in the wake of Wayne Couzens 'failures'
From giant letters H and S to the curious 'ERP': The hundreds of fading signs dating back to WWII that exist around Britain - but do YOU know what they mean?
Grenfell fire investigator who killed himself by overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT commit suicide, inquest rules
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Rishi Sunak denies 'dithering' over Suella Braverman's fate as Home Secretary STILL waits to hear if she will face sleaze probe on 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial tells how his life was 'destroyed' and demands answers over why it took so long for justice - as real killer is jailed for 29 years
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as cause of death is revealed
Chilling moment paedophile Rolf Harris warned children about 'touching' and 'yes feelings and no feelings' in 'Kids Can Say No' sex abuse educational video filmed during period of his offending in 1980s
Was hanged 'spy' the victim of a sting? Grieving family of executed British-Iranian Alireza Akbari claim he was lured back to Iran by a 'friend'
Former deputy defence minister of Iran Alireza Akbari was hanged in Iran
Akbari, 61, revealed he suffered 3,500 hours of torture leading up to execution
He is said to have been persuaded to return to Tehran by 'friend' Ali Shamkhani
Claire Ellicot For The Mail On Sunday
 23:56, 14 January 2023 
 00:09, 15 January 2023 
The grieving widow of a British-Iranian man executed in 
 spoke last night of her shock amid claims that he was betrayed by a former friend who lured him to his death.
Alireza Akbari, a former deputy 
 of Iran who lived in the UK for a decade, was hanged after being accused of being an 
In a harrowing audio clip recorded before his death, Mr Akbari revealed he suffered 3,500 hours of torture leading up to his execution.
After fleeing Iran in 2009 and living in the UK for a decade, Mr Akbari, 61, is said to have been persuaded to return to Tehran by Ali Shamkhani, his ex-boss and a senior member of the regime, in what appears to have been an elaborate trap.
Alireza Akbari (pictured), a former deputy defence minister of Iran who lived in the UK for a decade, was hanged after being accused of being an MI6 ‘super spy'
Iran executes more people every year than any country in the world. Pictured: Iran’s leader Ayatollah Khamenei 
Rishi Sunak slams 'callous and cowardly act carried out by a...
Iran 'is preparing to execute' British dual national: Tehran...
Brutal way Tehran kills its enemies 
By Abul Taher, Security Correspondent for The Mail on Sunday
After China, Iran executes more people every year than any country in the world.
The latest data collated by human rights groups shows that in 2021, Iran carried out the death penalty on at least 314 people, its highest total since 2017, compared to more than 1,000 in China.
Iranian hanging nooses are thick, with seven to ten knotted coils, and are often made from plastic rope that has very little drop. Under the Iranian Rules of Execution of Sentences, the victim’s body is required to hang for 20 to 45 minutes, after which it may be taken from the gallows, and a doctor confirms the death.
Unlike other countries, where a gallows system drops the victims and breaks their necks causing instant death, in Iran the condemned are made to stand on stools which are kicked away causing death by strangulation, which could take as long as 15 minutes.
Hangings are intended as both a punishment and a deterrent, so some executions take place from construction cranes on public roads, with the bodies left suspended for days. But Iran also carries out hangings in prisons.
Alireza Akbari was held in the notorious Evin prison outside Tehran, used to detain murderers, political opponents and foreigners accused of spying. British national Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe was also held there.
The jail has a courtyard where hangings are carried out, and those about to be executed are moved to solitary confinement before their deaths.
The regime executed 29 prisoners in Evin in one day in 2008.
Amnesty International said Iran executed three children under 18 last year, calling it ‘abhorrent’.
Maryam Samadi, Mr Akbari’s wife, said last night from her London home: ‘I am just shocked – we saw no reason or indication for the charges. We could have never imagined this, and I don’t understand the politics behind it.’ His brother, Mehdi Akbari, said: ‘The accusations against him are purely based on forced confessions under extreme duress.’
He told The New York Times that Mr Shamkhani had lured Mr Akbari to Iran, insisting that he must return because the government needed his security and defence expertise. Upon arrival he was almost immediately arrested and interrogated, he said.
Mr Shamkhani then refused to meet or speak with the Akbari family and has tried to distance himself from the case, according to Mr Akbari’s brother.
Mr Akbari’s hanging has sparked crisis meetings in Whitehall, as well as condemnation.
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said he was appalled by the execution. Foreign Secretary James Cleverly said: ‘This was a callous and cowardly act, carried out by a barbaric regime with no respect for the human rights of their own people. My thoughts are with Alireza’s friends and family.’
The Government last night slapped sanctions on Mohammad Jafar Montazeri, Iran’s hardline chief prosecutor, while Iran’s top diplomat in London was summoned to the Foreign Office as Ministers made clear their ‘disgust’.
It also emerged last night that British ambassador to Iran, Simon Shercliff, has been temporarily recalled from Tehran, and that Ms Samadi was denied a final meeting with her husband before his death and could only talk to him on the phone.
A statement issued by the Iranian judiciary’s mouthpiece, Mizan, stated that after 2005, Mr Akbari began spying for MI6, although it presented no evidence.
It said that Mr Akbari left for Vienna in 2009 under the pretext of a business trip, and once in the Austrian capital, his MI6 handlers coached him to feign a stroke, and took him to a hospital where they staged photographs.
This was apparently a ruse to stop Mr Akbari from returning to Tehran, and to enable his wife and two daughters to leave Iran to visit him in Vienna.
The Mizan notice says that after Mr Akbari’s family were with him, MI6 housed them in Vienna, and then took them to Spain, and then to Britain, where he and his family were given indefinite leave to remain in the UK and British passports. The statement claims the fact that the family were given citizenship so quickly is proof that he was an MI6 spy.
Last night, leading British Iran experts dismissed the judiciary’s claims, saying the regime used such accusation to target opponents, critics and foreigners.
The analysts pointed out the cases of Britons Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe and Anoosheh Ashoori, who were accused of spying and spent years in Evin prison – the same jail where Mr Akbari was held. Both were eventually released.
Catherine Perez-Shakdam, an Iran expert at the Henry Jackson Society think-tank, said: ‘It’s completely ludicrous that they claim Akbari was a spy.
‘They accuse anyone who is a critic of the regime of spying. Akbari did criticise the regime around 2009, that’s why they accused him of spying.’ She added: ‘If Akbari was a spy, he would definitely not go back to Iran in 2019.’
Ms Perez-Shakdam said that the execution came at a time when the Iranian regime was under siege because of weeks of protests caused by the death in police custody of student Mahsa Amini.
Ms Perez-Shakdam said that the execution came at a time when the Iranian regime was under siege because of weeks of protests caused by the death in police custody of student Mahsa Amini (pictured)
MARK ALMOND: Ayatollahs who executed British-Iranian citizen Alireza Akbar are hell-bent on a confrontation with the West
's leaders have been hanging dissidents since the start of the year, as they battle to quell the wave of street protests against the country’s repressive system. But yesterday’s execution of the joint British-Iranian citizen Alireza Akbari is a brutal step beyond. And it raises the spectre of an international crisis pitting the Islamic republic’s hardliners against the West.
Britain has been targeted as a threat by the Ayatollahs’ regime ever since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. We are the ‘Little Satan’ in their demonology. America is the ‘Great Satan’, said to be co-ordinating diabolic plots against Iran with its 
Paranoid they might well be, but such fantasies can have catastrophic consequences.
 spent more than five years in jail as a result of the flimsy claim that any Iranian who shows dissent from the regime is a Western spy.
Yesterday’s execution of the joint British-Iranian citizen Alireza Akbari (pictured) is a brutal step beyond 
After 40 years, and in the face of mass urban protests, the plausibility of those accusations is waning. But far from backing off, the Ayatollahs are doubling down. Iran has developed a growing range of sophisticated weapons, such as ballistic missiles, to the alarm of its neighbours. The fear is that Tehran’s renewed enrichment of uranium means it could soon have both a nuclear warhead and a delivery system capable of hitting its enemies in Israel – and reach deep into Western Europe.
Sadly, it is possible that Britain’s decision to bring sanctions against the regime’s Revolutionary Guards for backing terrorist groups across the Middle East could have triggered the hanging of Akbari.
Tehran had accused him of being the key informant for Israeli agents alleged to have assassinated a nuclear scientist in Iran.
More damning, it was claimed he had helped Donald Trump target and kill the Revolutionary Guards’ commander Qasem Soleimani, a military hero, in Baghdad three years ago.
It is hardly creditable that Akbari, who left Iran’s government 15 years ago, could have had access to hour-by-hour information on the whereabouts of these people.
Blaming the failures of their security services on a scapegoat such as Akbari won’t wash in the outside world. But what it is doing is stoking international tension. Cynically, the Ayatollahs need a foreign crisis to distract from their failure to stifle the populist protest movement, which was sparked by the death in police custody of a young woman, Mahsa Amini, who had not worn her headscarf ‘properly’.
Britain’s attempt to use quiet diplomacy to save Akbari failed, but Tehran probably saw such an approach as a sign of weakness.
Iranian-British dual citizen Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe (pictured) spent more than five years in jail as a result of the flimsy claim that any Iranian who shows dissent from the regime is a Western spy
This episode recalls Saddam Hussein’s execution of Observer journalist Farzad Bazoft as a ‘spy’ in 1990 in order to try to show that a Middle Eastern leader could defy a former imperial master.
That brutality in Iraq began the downward slide to the first Gulf War later that year.
Today, Iran’s rulers seem to think that extending their brutality by executing someone with a British passport will rally their people around them. But with the possibility that the regime might be nearing its death throes, this is a very dangerous moment, because Tehran could still wreak havoc.
Its decision to supply Russia with kamikaze drones to attack Ukraine shows that Iran has the weapons to target the West’s energy allies across the Persian Gulf.
Iran’s desperate hardliners see a crisis with the West as the best hope of finding themselves a lifeline. Their support of Russia suggests this could be part of a chain reaction of East-West conflicts that Moscow has deliberately created.
Most chillingly, I fear there is more to come.
Mark Almond is director of the Crisis Research Institute, Oxford.
Share or comment on this article: 
Family of executed British-Iranian Alireza Akbari claim he was lured back to Iran by a 'friend' 
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
