CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV: New Lives In The Wild and Breaking Dad | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV: Even the flintiest of hearts can't help but succumb to Ben's charm
Christopher Stevens For The Daily Mail
 01:50, 11 January 2023 
 08:56, 11 January 2023 
Ben Fogle: New Lives In The Wild
Bradley and Barney Walsh: Breaking Dad 
That Ben Fogle, what a charmer he is. If he ever switches career to enter politics, one rueful smile and a couple of soulful gazes will send him straight into Downing Street.
Ben makes a career of coaxing grumpy curmudgeons to love him, employing the self-deprecating wit of Louis Theroux, with the cheeky twinkle of Ant and Dec.
Later in this series of 
New Lives In The Wild (C5)
, he returns to the lawless Slab City in California, where he has befriended its population of junkies and weirdos. This time, though, he was in the rainforests of northern Australia to meet an eco-hermit named Bette.
This time on New Lives in the Wild, Ben Fogle was in the rainforests of northern Australia to meet an eco-hermit named Bette
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV: Quizmaster...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews the weekend's TV: These...
Bette was 79 and what the locals called ‘a colourful character’. When construction companies tried to drain the Queensland swamps, it was Bette who lay down in front of the bulldozers — and, at first, she took the same obstructive attitude to Ben’s arrival.
If he wanted to eat while he was her guest, she declared, he’d have to cook for himself. He could make her meals, too, while he was about it.
And though her house in the wetlands had only holes in the walls for its windows and doors, Ben wasn’t allowed to sleep there. He got a mosquito net, a mattress and a sheet of corrugated tin for a roof. 
Bette’s idea of hospitality was embodied by Sid Vicious, her mongrel terrier: ‘He’s got a bit of a personality problem,’ she warned, ‘so don’t touch him.’ Sid had an undershot jaw, which gave him a permanent snarl. Even Ben looked wary.
But it takes more than a canine punk to undermine his amiability. Ben headed straight for the kitchen, rustling up boiled pasta and a dollop of Vegemite. ‘Do you cook at home very often?’ sneered Bette. ‘Is everybody still alive in your family?’
Undaunted, benign Ben set about the household repairs. He checked the pulleys that hoist Bette’s furniture off the floor whenever her home floods. And he set to work with a shovel, clearing vegetation and spreading gravel.
Grudgingly, and with more than a hint of sarcasm, Bette said it was looking beautiful. Ben is immune to sarcasm. ‘Beautiful?’ he beamed. ‘Me, or the gravel?’
That did the trick. No woman, however cantankerous she pretends to be, can resist Ben when he’s flirting. ‘You can always take your shirt off,’ she encouraged him.
Bette was 79 and what the locals called ‘a colourful character’. By the end of the hour, Bette was pouring out her heart to him, revealing traumas in her past that had driven her to become a recluse
By the end of the hour, Bette was pouring out her heart to him, revealing traumas in her past that had driven her to become a recluse. All that charm had a purpose. No other interviewer on telly could have drawn those secrets from her. 
Bradley Walsh has a cheeky charm, too, but it serves little purpose on his roving adventure holidays with son Barney on
Brad and Barnes are simply tourists. They treated the people they met in Mexico as human guidebooks, barely bothering to ask their names. 
Most of their daredevil activities appear to be no more than expensive excursions — a dawn ascent in a hot-air balloon, a trek into a cave filled with bats and snakes, that sort of thing.
Bradley Walsh has a cheeky charm, too, but it serves little purpose on his roving adventure holidays with son Barney on Breaking Dad
Even the centrepiece, an ascent up the sheer face of the Pena de la Tanda mountain, turned out to be a disappointment when heavy cloud came down, obscuring the view
A trip to a waterpark seemed especially pointless. Why go to Mexico for that? Blackpool has far better.
The supposedly haunted ‘Island of Dolls’ was just a shoddy scam, where bits of plastic toys were displayed in jars. 
Even the centrepiece, an ascent up the sheer face of the Pena de la Tanda mountain, turned out to be a disappointment when heavy cloud came down, obscuring the view.
I felt like asking for my money back.
Fowl play of the night: Si King and Dave Myers revealed a hidden talent on 
The Hairy Bikers Go Local (BBC2)
Visiting a Norfolk farm, they herded a flock of free-range geese from one field into another. 
Never mind One Man And His Dog... it’s Two Men And Their Birds. 
Fowl play of the night: Si King and Dave Myers revealed a hidden talent on The Hairy Bikers Go Local (BBC2)
Share or comment on this article: 
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV: New Lives In The Wild and Breaking Dad
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
