UK strikes: Hard-Left union barons behind ambulance strikes include £120k-a-year Unison boss | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Do YOU think ambulance workers are right to strike? Vote here and tell us why.. 
Click HERE for MailOnline's Q&amp;A answering all your questions about the strike 
UK Ambulance strike live: Follow our blog for all the latest updates 
. Have you faced a delay to an ambulance due to the strike? Email matthew.lodge@mailonline.co.uk","publisher":{"@type":"Organization","name":"Daily Mail","sameAs":["DailyMail","https://www.facebook.com/DailyMail","https://twitter.com/MailOnline","https://www.youtube.com/user/MailOnlineVideo","https://www.instagram.com/dailymail/","https://www.snapchat.com/discover/Daily-Mail/8392137033","https://flipboard.com/@DailyMailUS","https://www.pinterest.co.uk/dailymail/"],"logo":{"@type":"ImageObject","url":"https://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/sitelogos/sd-dailymail.png","width":"600","height":"60"},"address":{"@type":"PostalAddress","streetAddress":"Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street","addressLocality":"London","addressRegion":"London","postalCode":"W8 5TT","addressCountry":{"@type":"Country","name":"GB"}}},"datePublished":"2022-12-21T14:37:15+0000","@type":"NewsArticle","description":"Gary Smith, an Edinburgh-born trade unionist, was rewarded for a lifetime of service to GMB with a £135,000 package when he was elected General Secretary last year.","headline":"UK strikes: Hard-Left union barons behind ambulance strikes include £120k-a-year Unison boss"}
Prince Harry loses latest legal challenge against Home Office after it refused to let him pay for Met Police to act as his personal security because its officers 'are not guns for hire'
Moment furious motorist attacks Just Stop Oil eco-zealots as he pushes them to the ground before police officers swoop in and handcuff HIM during another slow-march protest through capital
Wrong again! IMF finally admits Britain WON'T go into recession this year as it upgrades forecast AGAIN - after Jeremy Hunt warned it had been far too gloomy
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Hundreds outraged by woman's 'rude' and 'inconsiderate' act on three-hour flight
Row over Blur singer Damon Albarn's 'intrusive' eco-friendly heat pumps outside his Devon farmhouse as frontman installs a second box near public footpath 'before being granted planning permission'
The best places to stay in the world: Scarborough B&B is named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
Is the axe hanging over Suella Braverman? Rishi Sunak gathers Cabinet as he mulls Home Secretary's fate with 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Wife whose husband always flies first class but makes  her and their children sit in economy asks if she should divorce him
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' and says Phillip Schofield was 'entitled to a better send-off' from This Morning
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
Is ITV about to make a 'clean break' with Phillip Schofield? Axed star 'could be eased out after Soap Awards' - with Dermot O'Leary, Rylan Clark and Alison Hammond expected to help 'star host' Holly present This Morning
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
The £15 loaf of sourdough that 'helps you sleep, boosts your immune system, lowers your blood pressure and cuts your stress'
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
New ITV drama Maryland makes viewers break down in tears within MINUTES - as fans claim 'no one is more moving' than Suranne Jones
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Cardiff estate turned into a 'warzone' after two teens died in e-scooter tragedy: Workers clear streets as police hit back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
Revealed, six-figure salaries of hard-Left union barons behind ambulance strikes: One is a former Communist, another was kicked out of Labour and a third says she's 'open to working at the edges of the law'
Unison's £120k-a-year Christina McAnea was once a Communist Party member
Sharon Graham was voted to lead Unite with backing of Socialist Workers Party 
GMB General Secretary Gary Smith's £135k pay includes £5,000 'car benefits'
Have you faced a delay to an ambulance due to the strike? Email matthew.lodge@mailonline.co.uk 
Andy Jehring For The Daily Mail
 17:01, 21 December 2022 
The paramedic strikes are being coordinated by union barons earning six figures with links to far-left Labour factions and a taste for the dark arts.
, Unite and Unison are all trade union lifers on pay packets that put them firmly in the top 1 per cent - but claim to be on the side of low-paid workers.
Unison's £120,000-a-year leader Christina McAnea was previously a Communist Party member and makes no secret of her allegiance to Labour.
The trade union's president Andrea Egan is so far-Left she was recently expelled from Labour for sharing posts from the Socialist Appeal newspaper, which has been banned by the party.
Gary Smith, GMB General Secretary: The Edinburgh-born trade unionist was rewarded for a lifetime of service to GMB with a £135,000 package when he was elected General Secretary last year. He is pictured on the picket line in Bishop Auckland, County Durham
What MailOnline readers really think about ambulance...
How many ambulance workers are striking? Which areas are...
Do YOU think ambulance workers are right to strike? Vote...
Now Britons are told don't get drunk, DRIVE or play contact...
Sharon Graham was voted Unite General Secretary with the backing of the Socialist Workers Party after promising to be 'open to working at the edges of the law if necessary'.
While £80,000-a-year Ms Graham has declared she does not wish to get dragged into Labour politics, her three executive council members who specialise in health openly support Labour, and have Corbynista sympathies.
Another highly rewarded union baron is GMB General Secretary Gary Smith, whose £135,000 pay packet includes £5,000 in 'car benefits' and sees him earn nearly four times the average paramedic's £36,000 salary.
The union bosses' militant tendencies make it clear that the PM must fast-track plans to ban emergency workers from striking for good.
 Do YOU agree with ambulance workers striking? 
 Do YOU agree with ambulance workers striking? 
The Edinburgh-born trade unionist was rewarded for a lifetime of service to GMB with a £135,000 package when he was elected General Secretary last year.
Smith joined GMB a 16-year-old gas fitter. The union supported him to study at Ruskin College and he then worked full-time for the union, rising from recruitment officer to General Secretary - meeting his girlfriend Charlotte Gregory, a GMB communications officer, along the way.
The outspoken leader, who backs fracking and a £15 living wage, supported Sir Keir Starmer's leadership campaign.
But he has been critical of Labour kowtowing to the 'bourgeoisie environmental lobby' and reminded the party that the trade unions 'established' Labour as a 'parliamentary wing to combat hostile Tory legislation'.
He has preached solidarity with Mick Lynch's striking RMT union, joining them on the picket line, and last year 'celebrated' his trade union's 'radical tradition' on the birthday of GMB's co-founder, Eleanor Marx – the daughter of Karl Marx.
Sharon Graham, Unite the Union General Secretary: The pugilistic first female leader of Unite swept to power last year with the backing of the Socialist Workers Party on a manifesto for the union to be 'open to working at the edges of the law if necessary'. She is pictured on the picket line in Coventry
The pugilistic first female leader of Unite swept to power last year with the backing of the Socialist Workers Party on a manifesto for the union to be 'open to working at the edges of the law if necessary'.
Born in Hammersmith to an Irish mother and Geordie father, Ms Graham frequently boasts of how she staged her first walkout as a silver service waitress at 17.
The trade union lifer studied at the Trades Union Congress's Organising Academy and rose to become head of the union's controversial Organising and Leverage Department.
While she was head, the unit compiled a 200-page dossier on Sir Jim Ratcliffe when Ineos suspended a Unite shop steward.
It reportedly included references to the tycoon's marital status and children - and called on people to campaign at his house and at football clubs he was interested in.
Though she previously denied being behind the 'leverage' plan, she made no apology for targeting bosses personally.
Indeed, in 2019 she boasted she had ordered staff to compile dirty dossiers on 200 of Britain's top employers.
It helped to see her win 80 per cent of the 450 disputes she oversaw in her first year, securing £150million in extra pay and benefits for members.
Graphic shows: The average response times for Category 1, 2, 3 and 4 calls to ambulance services across England (left), and the average response time for each call (red) compared to the target response time (blue) across all services (right)
Graphic shows: The average time it takes for ambulance services across England to pick up 999 calls
Ms Graham herself receives an £80,000 salary and over £10,000 in benefits as General Secretary.
Ms Graham has now headed up 521 disputes, winning £200million in pay rises and benefits for 100,000 workers.
A spokesman for Ms Graham said: 'The reality is that what was decisive in her victory was her campaign to turn the union back to winning on 'jobs, pay and conditions' for the members.
'That appealed to members Right, Left and Centre across the union which was more decisive in her runaway victory than any support from a small socialist party to be frank.
'Leverage follows the money. If that leads to major shareholders who are family members so be it. We aim to move the share price as well the picket line.'
Christina McAnea, Unison General Secretary: Former Communist Party member Christina McAnea has come a long way since she was rejected from studying journalism, rising through the ranks of Unison to land the £120,000-a-year top job last year. She is pictured on the picket line in Waterloo, London
Former Communist Party member Christina McAnea has come a long way since she was rejected from studying journalism, rising through the ranks of Unison to land the £120,000-a-year top job last year.
As General Secretary she enjoys over £12,000 of additional perks and appears to live comfortably in a £1.1million four-bed Victorian terrace in Streatham, south London with her husband Robert Hill, 69.
Born in Glasgow, Ms McAnea signed up as a member of the Communist Party aged 16, leaving ten years later after realising 'you achieve nothing if you're not in power'.
After City University crushed her dreams of becoming a reporter by rejecting her application, she started her life in unions aged 24.
Though she has previously complimented Jeremy Corbyn's speeches, she has moderated her views and is a big backer of Sir Keir Starmer and his deputy Angela Rayner.
: Army drafted in, services declare critical incidents and families take loved ones to A&amp;E after 999 staff walkout as Health Secretary Steve Barclay refuses to meet union
 Vote here and tell us why...
How many ambulance workers are striking? Which areas are affected? Will heart attack victims be taken to hospital by 999 crews? 
Share or comment on this article: 
UK strikes: Hard-Left union barons behind ambulance strikes include £120k-a-year Unison boss
'I had a chance to save a life, I wanted to know it was successful': The heartwarming letters that started a...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Best time to have sex revealed (and it's probably NOT when you think!)&nbsp;
Washington man hospitalized after drinking canister of NOS octane which he mistook for an energy drink -...
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK...
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Urgent warning over vapes as shock investigation reveals gadgets puffed by kids can contain dangerous levels...
Tech mogul, 45, who spends $2m trying to de-age himself is injected with the BLOOD of his teenage son as...
Junior doctors to strike for three more days in June as union chiefs threaten to strike throughout summer...
More patient misery as the NHS loses 700 dentists despite claims from the government that reforms have...
Junk food and vaping adverts would be banned from airing before 9pm under Labour plans, despite suggestions...
The sound wave 'torpedos' that could cut your blood pressure&nbsp;
England's worst-performing hospitals REVEALED: Interactive map lays bare state of all 268 sites - including...
Forget a bubble bath or settling down with a good book... Sex three times a week can help to beat stress,...
Treat yourself to offers on make-up and accessories
Get the right equipment and sportswear for less
Save money on outlet and full-price orders
Holland and Barrett - Holland and Barrett promotions
Click through to find the latest voucher codes
Cult Beauty - Cult Beauty deals
Feel good with amazing savings with Cult Beauty
Allbeauty - Shop for branded make-up
Save money on your favourite brands this month
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
