Where The Apprentice winners are now and their varied successes ahead of 2023 final | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Prince Harry loses latest legal challenge against Home Office after it refused to let him pay for Met Police to act as his personal security because its officers 'are not guns for hire'
Moscow running scared: Kremlin evacuates nine border villages and admits there is 'cause for serious concern' as pro-Ukraine fighters capture territory within Russia's Belgorod region
Wrong again! IMF finally admits Britain WON'T go into recession this year as it upgrades forecast AGAIN - after Jeremy Hunt warned it had been far too gloomy
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey says a woman can 'quite clearly' have a penis as he is asked about trans rights in radio phone in
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Row over Blur singer Damon Albarn's 'intrusive' eco-friendly heat pumps outside his Devon farmhouse as frontman installs a second box near public footpath 'before being granted planning permission'
Moment furious motorist attacks Just Stop Oil eco-zealots as he pushes them to the ground before police officers swoop in and handcuff HIM during another slow-march protest through capital
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
The best places to stay in the world: Scarborough B&B is named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
Is the axe hanging over Suella Braverman? Rishi Sunak gathers Cabinet as he mulls Home Secretary's fate with 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Wife whose husband always flies first class but makes  her and their children sit in economy asks if she should divorce him
Cardiff estate turned into a 'warzone' after two teens died in e-scooter tragedy: Workers clear streets as police hit back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
New ITV drama Maryland makes viewers break down in tears within MINUTES - as fans claim 'no one is more moving' than Suranne Jones
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' and says Phillip Schofield was 'entitled to a better send-off' from This Morning
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Is ITV about to make a 'clean break' with Phillip Schofield? Axed star 'could be eased out after Soap Awards' - with Dermot O'Leary, Rylan Clark and Alison Hammond expected to help 'star host' Holly present This Morning
This Morning viewing figures are already on the rise as Alison Hammond and Dermot O'Leary helm show after Phillip Schofield's axing... while the duo cheerfully open their latest show
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Where are The Apprentice winners now? After Marnie Swindells becomes Lord Sugar's latest business partner a look back at the past contestants' varying successes from lucrative TV gigs to courtroom dramas
 09:35, 5 January 2023 
 09:22, 24 March 2023 
The winner of The Apprentice was crowned on Thursday night, with Marnie Swindells winning Lord Sugar's £250,000 investment.
The show began in 2005 as a groundbreaking series which featured some of the country's best young business minds hoping to secure a job with the then Sir Alan.
However, the programme has slowly turned into a more reality TV-inspired fare, with big personalities gloating irreverently about their skills in business.
The show's prize changed in 2011 with the candidates now competing for an investment into their business.
MailOnline looks back on the previous winners and where they are now.
Who will win? The winner of The Apprentice is set to be announced tonight, with Marnie Swindells (right) and Rochelle Anthony (left) going head-to-head for Lord Sugar's investment
If you make a purchase using links on this page, MailOnline will earn an affiliate commission
Get on board(room) the feather trend like Marnie in Nadine Merabi
When looking to leave a lasting impression, elevated eveningwear brand Nadine Merabi has you covered.  
What better an occasion than the Apprentice final? Marnie Swindells found a way to add some feathered fun to her workwear wardrobe, with this dreamy jumpsuit. 
Styled by Natalie Care, she meant business, layering their &#39;Colette&#39; design over a Cos shirt, with a River Island tie, Thomas Sabo earrings and an Annie Haak bracelet - nailed it! 
The one-piece is crafted from a luxurious black velvet, and features a flared leg, corseted bodice, and detachable belt. Say you&#39;re hired with a click to buy now! Or get wisped away in one of our lookalikes.
Club L London &#39;First Class&#39; jumpsuit
Nasty Gal Petite jumpsuit (now reduced to £104.25)
16Arlington &#39;Taree&#39; feather-trim jumpsuit at Farfetch
Winners: Over the years there have been 17 winners who were all lucky enough to hear the words: 'You're hired!'
Marnie is the current reigning champion after winning The Apprentice in 2023. 
The boxing champ won a £250,000 investment for her community-focused boxing gym business, Grit &amp; Glory, over salon owner Rochelle Anthony.
Lord Sugar said choosing her was a 'risk' because it was 'something which is completely alien to me to be honest and you've never run a business before'.
After her win, Marnie said: 'What an incredible opportunity and moment for a girl like me to get to a place like this and have become Lord Sugar's business partner.
'It feels strange to even say that, but I'm not going to stop saying it because I am so happy.'
Taking to Instagram after the episode aired, she wrote: 'Walking away from a career that I literally tortured myself to get was hard, but you know what’s harder? Staying in a place when you know you have more to give. 
'Don’t play it safe, don’t get comfortable and don’t ever settle for less than what you are capable of. Be bold enough to close one chapter, in order to open the next.'
Reigning champ: Marnie is the current reigning champion after winning The Apprentice in 2023
After winning in 2022, Harpreet started her dessert parlour business Oh So Yum in Bradford, with her sister Gurvinder and the help of Lord Sugar.
In an exclusive interview with MailOnline, Harpreet insisted that Apprentice boss Lord Sugar had 'no problem' with her business of five years being jointly run by a member of her family and BBC producers built up the tension as 'a bit of fun TV editing.'
Harpreet said: 'My sister is going to remain as a director in the business. They made a big deal of it on the show but it's not that big of a deal.
'Lord Sugar is getting two for the price of one and is looking forward to meeting my sister but if it stopped him from investing then she was going to step down.'
She also found love on the show, revealing in August of last year that she was 'unexpectedly swept off her feet' by co-star Akshay Thakra. 
Sweet taste of victory: Harpreet started her dessert parlour business Oh So Yum in Bradford, with her sister Gurvinder and the help of Lord Sugar.
Loved-up: She also found love on the show, revealing in August of last year that she was 'unexpectedly swept off her feet' by co-star Akshay Thakra
Carina won the £250,000 cash injection for her artisan bakery Dough Bakehouse, after winning nine out of the ten tasks.  
In September 2020 she opened her second bakery in Beckenham, alongside her bakery in Herne Hill.
Lord Sugar attended the opening and business seems to be booming for the businesswoman despite the pandemic putting some of her shops on hold.
She told the Mail on Sunday: 'Of course, when the pandemic hit, everything changed for everyone in hospitality.
'It's tough at the moment. We're ticking over, so that is good. But if it wasn't for the pandemic, we would probably have three or four shops now.'
Reflecting on her win as the new series launched in 2022, she tweeted: '2 years ago, reminiscing on Winning the @apprenticeuk.
'What a feeling, what a journey! one I'll never forget!'
Record holder: Carina won the £250,000 cash injection for her artisan bakery Dough Bakehouse, after winning nine out of the ten tasks (pictured then)
Sweet success: Lord Sugar attended the opening and business seems to be booming for the businesswoman despite the pandemic putting some of her shops on hold
Sian won in 2018 with her swimwear line Sian Marie already established before she went on the show.
The brand has since expanded to be sold through popular online fashion hotspot ASOS and sells party clothes and loungewear as well.
Her swimsuits have been worn by a range of famous stars including Michelle Keegan and Maura Higgins. 
Speaking about celebrities wearing her brands, she previously said: 'The Love Island girls, the TOWIE girls. I'm friends with some of them. 
'This year's Love Island, I'm going to look at who is going in there. I want them to like wearing them and not be paid to wear them.
'From my past that's how it's worked. I've never paid anyone to wear them.'
Speaking about her life after winning The Apprentice, she continued: 'Obviously doing the show and then the changes that we did to the business – turning it from very small scale to mass production – we've had quite a busy year. 
'It's been mad – especially with the big launch party at the end of the show.'
Sian also launched her very own Apprentice-based podcast last year, and often attends glitzy events. 
Victor: Sian won in 2018 with her swimwear line Sian Marie already established before she went on the show (pictured then)
Famous: Her swimsuits have been worn by a range of famous stars including Michelle Keegan and Maura Higgins (pictured now)
SERIES 13 - SARAH LYNN AND JAMES WHITE
2017 was a stand out year as it marked the first time that two people were given the prize as joint winners.
James used his money on his Right Time Recruitment company, which he originally set up in 2016.
reportedly struggled with 'unfortunate setbacks' in the first few months. 
It was also reported that James had a fall out with Lord  Sugar after he set up a different business with a friend, with Lord Sugar allegedly calling him 'stupid, daft and naïve' for the misguided decision.
Sarah used her cash prize to launch her confectionary company called Sweets in the City. 
It appears to have been a huge success and is available in WHSmiths, Holland &amp; Barrett and Waitrose.
Speaking about a range of her sweets launching in Waitrose on Instagram, Sarah said: 'The initial feedback has been amazing and I can't thank everyone who has supported me and the business on this adventure so far enough - now so many new customers get to taste and see the product for themselves, so please head to your nearest Waitrose and buy a bag...or two...or three!'
Joint winners: 2017 was a stand out year as it marked the first time that two people were given the prize as joint winners (pictured then)
Business: James used his money on his Right Time Recruitment company, which he originally set up in 2016 (pictured now)
Delicious: While Sarah used her cash prize to launch her confectionary company called Sweets in the City
Welsh businesswoman Alana won in 2016 with her luxury cake company Ridiculously Rich by Alana.
Her business boomed reaching annual sales of £500,000, suports almost 50 franchisees and she even has a YouTube baking channel.
She even reportedly bought back her shares from Lord Sugar in 2019, becoming the sole owner.
According to The Sun, a TV insider said: 'Alana has now bought back all of Lord Sugar's shares in Ridiculously Rich and she is now the sole owner and director of the firm.' 
Alana told the Daily Mail that going on the show was the best decision she had ever made, explaining: 'It wasn't just my best financial decision, it was the best one I have ever made in my life.
'It has made a huge difference in every aspect of my life. Financially, I have been able to take profits from my business and put down a hefty deposit to buy a house. 
'I also have a different work schedule. Instead of baking and selling at markets, I'm office-based and work in the development kitchen.' 
Champion: Welsh businesswoman Alana won in 2016 with her luxury cake company Ridiculously Rich by Alana (pictured then)
Success story: Her business boomed reaching annual sales of £500,000, suports almost 50 franchisees and she even has a YouTube baking channel (pictured now)
Joseph managed to persuade Lord Sugar into investing in his plumbing business ImpraGas.
Lord Sugar left the company in 2018, after Joseph bought back all his shares. 
Although it was reported that the company went bust in 2020, Joseph denies this saying it was wounded by Brexit and he 'pulled a deal out of nowhere a few days before we were about to go under'.
After selling the business he said his reputation took a 'hit' and suffered 'major anxiety' afterwards.
He told Metro: ‘The damage is done. I got abused, hardcore, online by all of the haters that were waiting for me to fail. I took a lot of grief from it.
‘It hit me extremely hard. You know, it was the worst depression, I’ve probably ever experienced. I started to question my ability.
‘I’ve taken a lot of stick, it wasn’t the nicest thing that happened. You really do want to give up.’
However, Joseph bounced back and is now CEO of his company Trade Mastermind, which gives advice and training to businesses in the construction industry.
He also penned his own book which was a bestseller on Amazon called Expelled from the Classroom to Billionaire Boardroom. 
Investment: Joseph managed to persuade Lord Sugar into investing in his plumbing business ImpraGas (pictured then)
Turned things around: However, Joseph bounced back and is now CEO of his company Trade Mastermind, which gives advice and training to businesses in the construction industry (pictured now)
Mark beat off the rest of the competition in 2014 and created his digital marketing company Climb Online.
The Sun previously reported that the business was set to turn over an impressive £5m at the end of its second year.
Mark recently announced he has become an official UK citizen after moving from Australia in 2012. 
Mark was the recipient of the Young Entrepreneur of the Year award in 2018 and wrote about his business on his website. 
He wrote: 'I wake up every day and still can’t believe I am the director of Climb Online.
'This business is a dream that became a reality for me. When I came to the UK in 2012, with nothing but a passion for business and a love of digital marketing, I didn’t know how I would start running my own business…I just knew I wanted it badly. 
'Lord Sugar and The Apprentice, combined with nine years’ experience in the industry, has created a recipe for a truly great business! I love helping companies smash their goals every day.'
Mark sold Climb Online in November 2022, but said he would be staying on as a shareholder and board member. 
Victorious: Mark beat off the rest of the competition in 2014 and created his digital marketing company Climb Online (pictured then)
Dr Leah from Northern Ireland won in 2013 with her cosmetic skin clinic Dr Leah Cosmetics.
The clinic offers skin peels, facials, skin tightening and fat reduction services.
The business reportedly turns over £1.6 million a year, and Lord Sugar has visited the clinic several times.
Leah has successfully set up sites in central London, Moorgate and Loughton, Essex.
She briefly dated fellow winner Mark Wright from 2015 until October 2016, with the couple citing their opposing work schedules as the reason for splitting up.
Sharing a video of herself cutting the ribbon for a new store with Lord Sugar, she wrote: 'Dr Leah Baker Street clinic is officially open! It is a dream come true for me to have a clinic in the heart of the medical district of London!
'Feeling so thankful for my amazing team @dr_leah_clinics, our loyal clients and of course my business partner @lord_sugar for putting his faith in me 5.5 years ago- which made this all possible. We have three clinics!"'
Dr Leah launched a debut skincare line in 2022, and created a coveted range of products.
She welcomed her first baby with golfer partner Justin Harding last year. 
Cosmetic surgery: Dr Leah from Northern Ireland won in 2013 with her cosmetic skin clinic Dr Leah Cosmetics (pictured then)
Mother-of-one: She welcomed her first baby with golfer partner Justin Harding last year (pictured now)
Former pro-wrestler Ricky Martin won in 2012 with his investment money going to his business Hyper Recruitment Solutions.
He now speaks about his experiences in business at schools and conferences.
Ricky is also a dad to two children with his wife Gemma, with the pair welcoming daughter Olivia in August 2020.
Family man: Ricky is also a dad to two children with his wife Gemma, with the pair welcoming daughter Olivia in August 2020 (pictured now)
Tom won back in 2011 with his invention of the Stylfile, a curved nail file which is now stocked by major supermarkets.
He continues to invent new inventions on his company STYLIDEAS, where you can buy reusable makeup wipes, gel nail polish remover sets and makeup brushes.
Tom, a former mechanical engineering student, went on to develop a collapsible baby bottle, a bowel cancer screening device and other inventions
He now runs a beauty accessories company with Lord Sugar called AVENTom. 
He admitted that he 'gets shouted at all the time' by Lord Sugar. 
Inventor: Tom won back in 2011 with his invention of the Stylfile, a curved nail file which is now stocked by major supermarkets (pictured then)
Product: He continues to invent new inventions on his company STYLIDEAS, where you can buy reusable makeup wipes, gel nail polish remover sets and makeup brushes (pictured now)
Investment banker Stella became Lord Sugar's apprentice in 2010 and was rewarded with a job at Lord Sugar’s Viglen IT company.
But she quickly became disillusioned in her role and described herself as an ‘overpaid lackey’ on £100,000 a year doing ‘menial’ jobs.
She claimed she was forced to resign after 12 months and brought a constructive dismissal case against Lord Sugar. 
However, the tribunal dismissed the case, with the panel deciding her case 'should never have been brought' and was 'ill-advised'.
Lord Sugar later said: 'I’m afraid she underestimated me and her reputation is now in tatters.'
Stella's ex-husband Ray blamed the show for their split, with Stella telling the Mirror: 'The day that Ray left me he said ‘I wish you had never done that show.’ I just didn’t know what to say.'
She struggled to find a job afterwards and claimed she only had £90 in the bank to feed her two children. 
Talking to Lorraine Kelly and Aled Jones on Daybreak, she said: 'Despite [the high salary] I couldn’t actually physically stay there, because it was unbearable. I had no future there, I knew that’s why I resigned.
'I don’t regret going on the show because I won The Apprentice and I’m very proud of that.
'But I do regret obviously what I’ve had to go through and what my family have had to go through, and I’m very sad the repercussions that it’s had.'
She continued: 'However I will stand by it, I’ve spoken the truth and I’ve stood up for myself and I‘ve had to pay for it dearly but I will never apologise for it.'  
She then went on to work as a Management Consultant at computer giant HP, before she began hosting Crowdbox TV, a crowdfunding TV channel, in 2014. 
Her love life also turned around as Stella found happiness with snooker player boyfriend Ali Carter in 2016 and they got pregnant in 2017.
Career: Investment banker Stella became Lord Sugar's apprentice in 2010 and was rewarded with a job at Lord Sugar’s Viglen IT company (pictured then)
Sue: She claimed she was forced to resign after 12 months and brought a constructive dismissal case against Lord Sugar. However, the tribunal dismissed the case
Yasmina got a job at Amscreen after her win in 2009, and stayed at the company for a year.
She then went on maternity leave but never fully returned to work after falling pregnant again just months after giving birth to her first child.
She became the creative director of Start Up Loans – a company that provides mentoring and finance to entrepreneurs.
Yasmina currently helps run a fintech company called Dynamic Planner based in Reading.
Job: Yasmina got a job at Amscreen after her win in 2009, and stayed at the company for a year (pictured then)
Lee won in 2008 and went on to work for Lord Sugar’s healthcare company Amscreen.
He famously called in sick on his first day at the company as development director in ‘digital signage’.
He left the company in 2010 to start his own recruitment agency, Raw Talent Agency, based in Oxfordshire.
Win: Lee won in 2008 and went on to work for Lord Sugar’s healthcare company Amscreen (pictured then)
Moved on: He left the company in 2010 to start his own recruitment agency, Raw Talent Agency, based in Oxfordshire (pictured now)
Simon won the third series and got the £100,000 job - assigned to Lord Sugar’s property division, Amsprop.
He stayed in the job for three years before leaving in 2010 and since then has invested in restaurants, members clubs and art galleries throughout London.
Speaking to the BBC he said: 'I enjoyed my three years with Lord Sugar and saw him regularly, my desk being only yards from his office,” he said.
He is also believed to be serving as a chairman of the London Contemporary orchestra.
Nowadays: He stayed in the job for three years before leaving in 2010 and since then has invested in restaurants, members clubs and art galleries throughout London (pictured now)
Michelle won in 2006 and worked with Lord Sugar at his tech company Xenon Green for 11 months, but left early to begin a business consultancy.
She published an autobiography called Anything Is Possible in 2007 and became a columnist for magazine Business Matters in 2009.
She has since become a motivational speaker, a Sky News TV pundit and a host on GB News with her own show Dewbs &amp; Co.
In July 2006, The Sun revealed that she was pregnant by Syed Ahmed, a fellow Apprentice contestant.
Sadly, Michelle miscarried the baby after being admitted to hospital with stomach pains, and the pair spilt soon afterwards.
Happily, she recently welcomed her first child - a baby boy, sharing: 'I am super proud and happy to share the news that I am now a Mummy!!' 
She also stood as an independent pro-Brexit candidate in the 2017 general election in Hull West and Hessle, but failed to win.
Left early: Michelle won in 2006 and worked with Lord Sugar at his tech company Xenon Green for 11 months, but left early to begin a business consultancy (pictured then)
Host: She has since become a motivational speaker, a Sky News TV pundit and a host on GB News (pictured now)
Tim was the first ever winner of the reality TV series, bagging a £100,000 a year jon at Lord Sugar's firm Amstrad.
He stayed in the job for two years before leaving to found the Bright Ideas Trust, a charity which helps young people to set up their own businesses.
'I never saw the Apprentice, Lord Alan's position, as a job for life,' he told The Guardian. 
'It was on a plate for me but that wasn't what it was about. I never saw him as a blank cheque.'
Tim even received an MBE in 2012 for Services to Enterprise Culture.
In 2016, he co-founded Marketing Runners Ltd which is a bespoke digital marketing agency in London.
In 2022 he came full circle and returned to the show that made his name by becoming one of Lord Sugar's advisors. 
Full circle: In 2022 he came full circle and returned to the show that made his name by becoming one of Lord Sugar's advisors (pictured now)
Share or comment on this article: 
Where The Apprentice winners are now and their varied successes ahead of 2023 final
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
