Washington Department Health urges transmasculine persons cervix to seek out smears cervical cancer | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Forgetting something? Washington Department of Health urges 'transmasculine persons with a cervix' to seek out smears during cervical cancer awareness month - but DOESN'T ask women to do the same
Washington State Dept of Health is facing backlash over a public service message about female sexual health yet the word 'woman' is not used once
The tweet, which was posted on January 9, urged vaccination against HPV, which can cause cervical cancer - although the word 'woman' was not used
 In a follow-up tweet, the Dept posted a photograph urging 'transmasculine persons with a cervix' to talk to their doctors about getting a smear test 
The tweets led to criticism on social media with users expressing offense and concerns about use of the word 'transmasculine' and lack of female pronouns
 03:47, 15 January 2023 
 05:53, 15 January 2023 
 Department of Health is coming under fire over a 'cervical cancer awareness month' tweet that urged 'transmasculine persons with a cervix' to consider a smear test -while making no mention of women.
The tweet from January 13, features a photograph of at least one 'transmasculine' person looking at their phone.
'Transmasculine persons with a cervix should talk to their doctor about #CervicalCancer screening and the #HPVvax,' it states.
A tweet sent earlier this month showed a photo of what appears to be a group of women standing around in another bid to push cervical cancer awareness - but again failed to mention the 'w' word itself.  
A transmasculine person is an individual who was born female at birth but identifies as masculine or as having a masculinity that is different from the gender they were assigned at birth. 
Yet the tweet manages to avoid the use of any female pronouns, angering women who say their hard-fought equality is being eroded by woke officials' obsession with ensuring a tiny minority is included. 
A follow-up tweet from January 13, features a photograph of at least one 'transmasculine' person looking at their phone. Conservative radio host Dana Loesch was among those who shared the image after being offended by it 
A tweet features a message which urges vaccination against HPV which can cause cervical cancer, although in the January 9 message, the word woman is not used at any point
Dr. Umair Shah, is the Secretary of Health in Washington State
Days earlier, in another public service announcement encouraging people to be vaccinated against the HPV, despite being about female sexual health, no words relating to women are used at all. 
'Almost all #CervicalCancer is caused by HPV. That’s why it’s so important to get vaccinated against HPV. Talk to your doctor to see if the #HPVvax is right for you,' reads the January 9 message.
The Department is headed by Umair A. Shah, MD, MPH, who was appointed Secretary of Health for Washington State. 
The avoidance of using the word 'woman' or even any kind of female pronouns has led to people seething on Twitter. 
'This is mental illness,' declared Twitter user Jeremy Knauff.
'This is a joke,' added Cory Proctor. 
'Disturbing. Disgusting. Sickening,' wrote John McGlone.  
The avoidance of using the word 'woman' or even any kind of female pronouns has led to people seething on Twitter.
Other Twitter users were far more straight forward about what they had read.
Conservative radio host Dana Loesch quote tweeted the transmasculine tweet, and wrote 'TF is this garbage.'  
'If you have a cervix you are a female of either the girl/woman variety. There is no other option except in your imagination. Depts of Health should know better than to pander to imaginary whims,' wrote one user.
But the offense appeared to run deep: 'Why are you misogynists trying to cancel women?' asked another poster.
'Just when I thought my faith in the medical community couldn’t get any lower, WADoH proves me wrong!' wrote Chickie Plissken. 
Is identifying as a dragon ANY different to biological men...
Wisconsin scraps ban on barbaric 'conversion therapy' -...
The use of the word 'transmasculine' appeared to irk the majority of users.
People who identify as 'transmasculine' are individuals who identify as having a masculine gender identity, but who were assigned a female sex at birth. 
It may involve taking steps to transition to a more masculine appearance such as hormone therapy, surgery or identifying as male. 
Twitter users continued to pile on the Health Department following their message.  
'Women. Only woman have a cervix...' stated TakemetoTexas, getting straight to the point. 
Twitter users continued to pile on the Health Department following their message that avoided all use of female pronouns
'What in the upside down world is this? You have to be kidding. What has happened to our institutions? I can say with almost 100% certainty that a white woman is behind this,' asked UnderCvrTherapist. 
'Please say “women”. A lot of people don’t know what “transmasculine” means and all women should get regular screenings,' pleaded Hollaria Briden.
'That’s called a FEMALE. WOMAN. Those other made up words are actually referring to mental illness, but you know this. No one should EVER trust the “experts” or “science”… ever. again. What a bunch of sinister frauds y’all are,' stated another Twitter user.  
'The thing about this is that anyone who has grown up in a female body, regardless of how they feel about it or whether they have transitioned will be fully aware of this, so these posts are just a mixture of infantilising and virtue signaling,' declared one outraged follower. 
Last month Dictionary.com revealed that its 2022 Word of the Year was 'woman' which is defined as 'an adult female person. Searches for the word increased to its highest point 
Last month, Dictionary.com revealed that 'woman' was the 2022 Word of the Year after searches for the word increased more than 1,400 percent. 
Searches for the word increased when a question about the definition of the word was posed on the national stage during a 
 confirmation hearing for Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.
The leading online and mobile English-language educational resource, defines 'woman' as 'an adult female person.' 
Earlier this year, Merriam-Webster included a new supplementary definition of ‘female’ which stated ‘having a gender identity that is the opposite of male’
But the very word came under the spotlight as the Cambridge  Dictionary updated 
definition to include anyone who ‘identifies as female’.
A supplementary definition in the online dictionary now states the word can mean ‘an adult who lives and identifies as female though they may have been said to have a different sex at birth’.
 elected to a national office’.
The entry for ‘male’ has also been updated to include individuals who had a ‘different sex at birth’.
Free Speech Union founder Toby Young warned the dictionary compilers had gone down a ‘slippery slope’.
‘It’s disappointing to see identity politics creeping into the way a dictionary defines words,’ he said.
The heated debate over the definition of ‘woman’ went into overdrive when JK Rowling mocked the use of the term ‘people who menstruate’.
She was ‘cancelled’ in some quarters, with many of the actors from the Harry Potter series of films also speaking out against her.
T-shirts emblazoned with dictionary-style text stating ‘woman / noun / adult human female’ have added to the controversy, with critics saying the slogan discriminates against transgender people.
One woman was barred from a pub after a complaint that the top was offensive.
A smear test detects abnormal cells on the cervix, which is the entrance to the uterus from the vagina.
Removing these cells can prevent cervical cancer.
Most test results come back clear, however, one in 20 women show abnormal changes to the cells of their cervix.
In some cases, these need to be removed or can become cancerous.
Cervical cancer most commonly affects sexually-active women aged between 30 and 45. 
In the UK, the NHS Cervical Screening Programme invites women aged 25-to-49 for a smear every three years, those aged 50 to 64 every five years, and women over 65 if they have not been screened since 50 or have previously had abnormal results.
Women must be registered with a GP to be invited for a test. 
In the US, tests start when women turn 21 and are carried out every three years until they reach 65.
Changes in cervical cells are often caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV), which can be transmitted during sex.
Girl, 17, weeps as she recalls seeing naked trans woman with penis in women's changing room at California YMCA - and says woke staff scolded her for complaining
A Californian teenager sobbed before the city council as she told of her trauma at seeing 'a naked man' she says was a transgender woman inside the women's changing rooms at her local YMCA.
Rebecca Philips, 17, addressed the meeting in Santee, a city suburb of San Diego, on Wednesday night to demand reform to the existing policy after encountering the unidentified individual. 
She told the council how, two weeks ago, she was getting changed after swimming at the Santee YMCA when she saw
'As I was showering after my workout I saw a naked male in the women's locker room,' she said.
'I immediately went back into the shower, terrified, and hid behind their flimsy excuse for a curtain until he was gone.'
Philips, who went on to discuss the area's transgender policies, said she was haunted by the thought of her five-year-old sister, who she brings to the gym in the summer, encountering the same situation.
Her voice quivering, she said: 'This is the YMCA, where hundreds of children spend their summer afternoons in child care camps.
'This is the YMCA where my little sister took gymnastics lessons.
'The locker room was supposed to be her safe haven to gossip with her friends, and shower and change.'
Rebecca Philips, 17, addressed the Santee City Council on Wednesday night
 She urged them to change their policy on transgender women using whichever facilities they chose, saying it was indecent and 'obscene'
Philips came across the transgender woman in the changing room of the YMCA in Santee, California - a city suburb of San Diego
Philips says staff told her the trans woman was perfectly entitled to be in the changing rooms, and that only those on the sex offender's registry were banned from entering.
Women's facilities - changing rooms, shelters, prisons - can be used by anyone in California thanks to a state law saying people must be allowed to use facilities which align with their gender identity.
 supervisors for San Diego County decided to redefine the word 'woman' to include trans people. 
Nathan Fletcher, Terra Lawson-Remer and Nora Vargas all approved the measure. The two Republicans serving as supervisors voted against the bill.
Philips told the council she was horrified by the experience.
San Diego County Supervisor Nathan Fletcher was one of three to vote to approve the May 2022 bill which said anyone who defines themselves as female can use the facilities of their choice
Terra Lawson-Remer (left) and Nora Vargas (right), both San Diego County supervisors, also voted to approve the bill
Philips said that the YMCA management, asked about their transgender policy, told her 'the man I saw was indeed allowed to shower wherever he pleased'.
She added: 'A grown male can shower alongside a teenage girl at your YMCA, here in Santee.'
Philips said she was dismayed at the response from the YMCA staff.
'I was made to feel as if I had done something wrong,' she said.
'The indecent exposure of a male to a female minor was an inconvenience to them.'
Philips said her father, who complained, was contacted by Teri Maas, the Association Director of Membership Experience at YMCA of San Diego County.
Teri Maas, the Association Director of Membership Experience at YMCA of San Diego County, rang Philips' father to reassure him his daughter was never at risk
'She informed my dad that I was not in any danger,' Philips said. 'That I was safe.'
But, she added: 'Could you knowingly send an underage girl into a room with a naked male and say she was safe? Or it was right?'
The YMCA said in a statement: 'We are aware of a situation involving two members in the locker room of the Santee YMCA earlier this month. The comfort and safety of all our members is our highest priority.
'As a community focused organization, we strive to meet the needs of all individuals. We recognize that birth and gender identity are sensitive subjects. We rely on subject matter experts, laws, and guidelines established by the State of California to ensure our policies are welcoming and respectful for all community members.'
They said they were now reviewing their procedures, in light of Philips' complaint.
'As part of this commitment to ensure all individuals feel comfortable, we are reviewing lock room floorplans across all facilities within our association,' they said.
'Our goal is to ensure that everyone has access to additional privacy if desired and needed.'
Trans women using female changing facilities - and entering some single-sex sports - has proven a political flashpoint in recent years.
Critics say trans women who still have male private parts should not be allowed into spaces where women may be undressed or vulnerable.
Supporters say only a tiny minority of trans women are sex offenders, and that banning all trans women from accessing female spaces persecutes the blameless majority.  
Share or comment on this article: 
Washington Department Health urges transmasculine persons cervix to seek out smears cervical cancer
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
