Border patrol union chief slams Biden for not meeting migrants during visit to El Paso  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Cabinet Office refers Boris Johnson to police over possible new lockdown breaches at Chequers and Downing Street amid claims ex-PM was visited by friends despite Covid restrictions
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
Ministers to bar foreign students from bringing family members with them to Britain in bid to slash immigration numbers - but Suella Braverman loses battle to prevent graduates from working in the UK after their course ends
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Woman in her 40s dies after 'falling down stairs' in home while police were arresting 38-year-old man
Sophie makes a secret trip to Iraq: Duchess of Edinburgh spends two days in Baghdad on fact-finding mission about protecting women's and girls' rights
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just minutes after schoolboy's death
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey is slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as he clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
IOPC calls for a new national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation - in the wake of Wayne Couzens 'failures'
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyoncé tour begins after council 'failed to extend their bookings'
Grenfell fire investigator who killed himself by overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT commit suicide, inquest rules
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
'It was just optics': Border patrol union chief slams Biden for not meeting migrants or rank-and-file agents during 'santizied' visit to El Paso - and not seeing 'any of the chaos he's created' after city was cleaned up
President Joe Biden visited the border city of El Paso, Texas, on Sunday
He spent a little over three hours on the ground, touring border facilities 
But representatives of Border Patrol agents said it was too little, too late 
Brandon Judd said Biden did not meet any migrants or agents at the sharp end 
'It was just optics. It was a photo shoot,' he told DailyMail.com on Monday 
Rob Crilly, Senior U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.Com In El Paso, Texas
 18:40, 9 January 2023 
 19:25, 9 January 2023 
The head of the Border Patrol agents' union slammed President 
 for failing to meet any migrants or rank-and-file officers during his Sunday visit to El Paso, 
Brandon Judd on Monday said his members were furious that Biden and the national media got a stage-managed view of conditions at the border. 
'Every single Border Patrol agent that I've spoken with is extremely frustrated and upset about what just took place yesterday,' the president of the National Border Patrol Council told DailyMail.com. 
'They are upset that he was not willing to see what's actually going on. They're upset that 
'They're upset that him knowing that he was going to bring the mainstream media with them, that we all of a sudden doubled the number of agents in the field so the mainstream media would say: "Hey, there's nothing going on here, nothing to see.' 
Brandon Judd, president of the National Border Patrol Council, slammed President Joe Biden's visit to the southern border on Sunday, saying he did not get a full picture of the crisis
Immigrants sleep on the sidewalk near a migrant shelter on January 9, 2023, a day after the president's visit. He did not meet any migrants during his tour of border facilities
EXCLUSIVE This is what Biden didn't see at the border: Watch...
Texas Gov. Abbott hands Biden a frosty welcome letter as the...
Crisis, what crisis? El Paso clears migrant camps ahead of...
Biden arrives at border to see illegal immigration crisis...
It was Biden's first visit to the border since becoming president.
For the past two years Republicans have used record numbers of illegal crossings to hammer his administration for what they say is an 'open border' policy. 
Biden's supporters hoped his visit would blunt the attacks.
But it emerged that law enforcement agents conducted a sweep of the city last week, taking migrants off the street, in what critics said was an effort to give Biden a 'sanitized' tour.
The number of illegal crossings has also plunged in the past two weeks, easing conditions in El Paso. 
And Biden got a frosty welcome from Greg Abbott, the Republican governor of Texas, who handed him a letter condemning his policies. 
Judd said Biden did not meet any migrants and the tour amounted to nothing more than 'optics.'
'He didn't tour any facilities where migrants would have been,' he said. 'So he didn't see anything. 
'He did not see any of the chaos that he's created, that he's caused.'
Biden was making his first visit to the southern border since becoming president. White House officials have been able to point to one other visit during his career in politics
Just a short distance from where President Biden was taking a stroll along a 'sanitized' stretch of the border fence in El Paso, migrants continued to cross the Rio Grande river into the U.S.
In December, this area was filled with migrants sleeping on the streets. Bon Saturday, the same streets had no sign of the migrants who had camped there after a clearance operation
Biden flew into the border town en route to Mexico City for a North American leaders' summit. 
From the airport, Biden visited the Bridge of the Americas — actually a series of bridges connecting El Paso with the Mexican city of Ciudad Juárez — for a close-up look at the border and a bustling port of entry.
He watched border officers demonstrate how they search vehicles for drugs, money and other contraband. 
A yellow Labrador was shown detecting fruit and meat in a vehicle, before a chocolate Labrador retrieved what appeared to be a package of drugs from another car.
As he toured the port of entry, a sign reading, 'Bienvenido a Mexico,' could be seen on the far side of the border.
From there he took a stroll along the side of the border fence, and on to the El Paso County Migrant Services Center to hear about the services that were offered to new arrivals. 
During his tour Biden was shown how border officers search vehicles for drugs, money and other contraband at the El Paso port of entry on the Bridge of the Americas
Biden was shown a fake battery that was used in an attempt to smuggle drugs into the U.S.
Abbott handed this letter to Biden at El Paso International Airport, ensuring a frosty welcome to Texas on Sunday as the president makes his first visit to the border since taking office
He asked how many people came through the center and was told about 300 to 500 a day, although it sometimes reached as many as 1000. 
His drive to the center, along closed-off roads, actually brought him close to people who that day had crossed the Rio Grande river on to U.S. soil. They cheered as his motorcade thundered past the other side of the border fence from him. 
But he would have been oblivious to their presence as his convoy raced past. 
Judd said Biden claimed before the visit he wanted to get a better understanding of the problems at the border.
'He didn't get any more of an understanding that what he had before he went, and again, that's politics,' he said.
'It was just optics. It was a photo shoot.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Border patrol union chief slams Biden for not meeting migrants during visit to El Paso 
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
