Schiff, Swalwell say Intel panel removal is McCarthy's 'revenge' for Trump | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Democrats kicked off Intelligence Committee claim Kevin McCarthy was doing the bidding of 'his master in Mar-a-Lago' as 'revenge' for impeaching Trump
Democrats kicked off the House Intelligence Committee say House Speaker Kevin McCarthy is getting revenge for former President Donald Trump 
On Tuesday, McCarthy decided that Reps. Adam Schiff and Eric Swalwell were no longer welcome on the House Intel Committee 
He's also threatened a House vote to remove Rep. Ilhan Omar from the House Foreign Affairs Committee 
'The cardinal sin appears to be that I led the impeachment of his master in Mar-a-Lago,' Schiff said, while Swalwell called it 'purely political vengeance' 
Nikki Schwab, Senior U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com
 19:35, 25 January 2023 
 00:51, 26 January 2023 
 kicked off the House Intelligence Committee said Wednesday that House Speaker 
 was merely getting revenge for former President 
On Tuesday, McCarthy decided that Reps. Adam Schiff and Eric Swalwell were no longer welcome on the House Intel Committee. He's also threatened a House vote to remove Rep. 
 from the House Foreign Affairs Committee over comments she previously made about Israel.  
'The cardinal sin appears to be that I led the impeachment of his master in Mar-a-Lago, for withholding hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid from Ukraine, a nation that was even then at war with Russia, in order to extort that country into helping Donald Trump's reelection campaign,' Schiff said at a press conference on Capitol Hill alongside Swalwell and Omar. 
Swalwell complained that McCarthy is using his power as speaker to 'go after his political opponents and pick them off the field.' 'In my case it's purely political vengeance,' Swalwell added. 
 Reps. Eric Swalwell (left) and Adam Schiff (center) were removed from the House Intelligence Committee, while Rep. Ilhan Omar (right) is being threatened with a floor vote to oust her from the House Foreign Affairs Committee. They held a press conference Wednesday to respond 
The Democrats said House Speaker Kevin McCarthy (pictured) was doing the bidding of 'his master in Mar-a-Lago' as 'revenge' for impeaching former President Donald Trump by removing them from the House Intelligence Committee 
In a heated exchange with a reporter Tuesday night, McCarthy pointed to Schiff's role in Russiagate during the Trump years and said the California Democrat 'lied to the American public' about the legitimacy of Hunter Biden's laptop while serving as Intelligence Committee chair in the run-up to the 2020 presidential election.
'And if you want to talk about Swalwell, let's talk about Swalwell,' McCarthy continued. 'Because you have not had the briefing that I have.' 
Georgia prosecutor says the decision to charge Trump in 2020...
Rep. George Santos' campaign backtracks and says $500K loan...
GOP Rep. Nick LaLota says he's skipping White House...
Republican Rep. Greg Steube reveals he fractured his pelvis...
McCarthy then brought up an FBI briefing he had with then House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, as well as Schiff, about Swalwell's entanglements with an alleged Chinese spy named Fang Fang. 
'As he indicated, I sat in on that briefing and when Kevin McCarthy misrepresents it and does that disservice to the American people, it's shameful,' Schiff said. 'This is a patently unfair smear by Mr. McCarthy,' the California Democrat said. 
Swalwell said all he did was two things: 'I helped them over and over and I was never suspected of wrongdoing.'
Omar pointed out that she apologized for making anti-Semitic remarks early in her Congressional tenure. 
'I have addressed it, I've apologized. It's been two and a half terms ago,' the Minnesota Democrat said. 'I think it is really important in all of our cases to remember it is not the accusations that McCarthy is making against us that is pushing for our removal from these committees.' 
'It is about revenge. It's about appeasing the former president,' she added. 
She argued that 'all three of us have been a thorn in the back of the previous disgraced president.'
'Republicans have been gunning for our seats and obviously know how effective we have been in upholding the Constitution, in defending our democracy and standing up to extremists,' she said. 
McCarthy was able to unilaterally remove Schiff and Swalwell from the Intelligence Committee, but Omar's fate will be in the hands of the full House. 
It's unclear if McCarthy has the votes. 
Moderate Republican Reps. Victoria Spartz and Nancy Mace have said they opposed the move. 
McCarthy is also short one vote due to Rep. Greg Steube recovering from substantial injuries after falling off a ladder at his Florida home. 
The new House Republican majority removed the option for members to vote by proxy. 
McCarthy was questioned Tuesday night on how he could push Schiff and Swalwell from their committees, but allow serial liar and Republican Rep. George Santos to be assigned to two committees - the Committee on Small Business and the Committee on Science, Space and Technology. 
'I'm going to be very clear with you. The Intel Committee is different. You know why? Because what happens in the Intel Committee, you don't know,' McCarthy told PBS NewsHour's Lisa Desjardins. 
Schiff reacted by saying, 'the hypocrisy just grabs you by the throat.'  
'This is a Republican speaker who is seating a human fraud, George Santos, on committees, a serial fabricator about every part of his existence,' Schiff said. 
In a tense back-and-forth with Desjardins at a Tuesday press conference, McCarthy also pointed out that Schiff and Swalwell would be able to serve on other committees - just not those charged with the nation's secrets. 
'But you know what, those voters elected Schiff, even though he lied, those voters elected Swalwell, even though he lied to the American public, too,' McCarthy reasoned. 'So you know what? I respect his voters too and they'll serve on committees. But they will not serve on a place that has national security ramifications because integrity matters to me.' 
'I will not be like Democrats and play politics with these. Where they removed Republicans from committees and all committees,' McCarthy also said. 
During the last Congress, Republican Reps. Marjorie Taylor Greene and Paul Gosar were stripped of all their committee assignments after they shared social media posts that threatened violence on Democrats including then House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. 
They were removed from committees using a floor vote. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Schiff, Swalwell say Intel panel removal is McCarthy's 'revenge' for Trump
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
