Doomsday Clock 2023: Ukraine war pushes humankind to 'brink of disaster' | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
The change is due to the war in Ukraine and Russia's threat of nuclear weapons
","publisher":{"@type":"Organization","name":"Daily Mail","sameAs":["DailyMail","https://www.facebook.com/DailyMail","https://twitter.com/MailOnline","https://www.youtube.com/user/MailOnlineVideo","https://www.instagram.com/dailymail/","https://www.snapchat.com/discover/Daily-Mail/8392137033","https://flipboard.com/@DailyMailUS","https://www.pinterest.co.uk/dailymail/"],"logo":{"@type":"ImageObject","url":"https://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/sitelogos/sd-dailymail.png","width":"600","height":"60"},"address":{"@type":"PostalAddress","streetAddress":"Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street","addressLocality":"London","addressRegion":"London","postalCode":"W8 5TT","addressCountry":{"@type":"Country","name":"GB"}}},"datePublished":"2023-01-24T15:33:39+0000","@type":"NewsArticle","description":"The Doomsday clock has moved 10 seconds closer to midnight - bringing us just 90 seconds away from unprecedented danger. The change is largely due to the war between Russia and Ukraine.","headline":"Doomsday Clock 2023: Ukraine war pushes humankind to 'brink of disaster'"}
'A time of unprecedented danger': Doomsday Clock sits just 90 seconds before midnight due to the war in Ukraine - the closest humankind has been to annihilation in 76 years
The Doomsday Clock has been moved to just 90 seconds away from midnight
This is a 10-second loss compared to 2022, scientists announced Tuesday
 18:23, 24 January 2023 
The Doomsday Clock — used to represent how close the world is to catastrophe — now stands at just 90 seconds to 'midnight.'  
The clock had been sitting at 100 seconds from midnight since 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and global warming fears. But the threat of nuclear weapons being used on the battlefield has upgraded the threat level.
Rachel Bronson, CEO of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists who developed the clock, said: 'The possibility that the conflict could spin out of anyone's control remains high.'
Tuesday's announcement also marks the closest the Doomsday Clock has been since its inception in 1947. 
The Doomsday Clock is the closest it has been to global catastrophe after this annual update on Tuesday that brought the hypothetical timekeepers 90 seconds to midnight
Every January since 1947, the Bulletin has determined how close humankind is to annihilation by pulling the current off the clock.
The Doomsday Clock was founded by US scientists involved in the Manhattan Project, which led to the first nuclear weapons during World War II, and is a symbolic countdown to represent how close humanity is to complete global catastrophe.
What is the Doomsday Clock? Everything you need to know...
How one doomsday volcano off the coast of Indonesia could...
Artist Martyl Langsdorf was commissioned to make the clock and told to create an image that would 'frighten men into rationality,' according to Eugene Rabinowitch, the first editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists.
The time is determined by the group of scientists who look at events throughout the year. 
This is the closest the Doomsday Clock has been moved to midnight in 76 years 
The clock was founded by US scientists involved in the Manhattan Project, which led to the first nuclear weapons during World War II and is a symbolic countdown representing how close humanity is to complete global catastrophe. Pictured is the unveiling in 1947
This can include politics, energy, weapons, diplomacy and climate science, along with potential sources of threat like nuclear threats, climate change, bioterrorism and artificial intelligence.
And It has been set backward and forward 25 times since 1947.
The Bulletin's announcement woefully points to the ongoing war between Ukraine and Russia, which has killed more than 33,000 people combined.
The change is largely due to the war in Ukraine, which the Science and Security Board of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists fear will carry on for its second year
The announcement also notes that Russia's continued threat to use nuclear weapons was also part of the decision to move the Doomsday Clock
There has been a total of 7,068 civilian deaths during s of January 22, 2023, 438 of which were children. 
Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, 2022, in a major escalation in the war between the nations that has been ongoing since 2014. 
'Russia's war on Ukraine has raised profound questions about how states interact, eroding norms of international conduct that underpin successful responses to a variety of global risks,' explained the Doomsday Clock statement.
'And worst of all, Russia's thinly veiled threats to use nuclear weapons remind the world that escalation of the conflict—by accident, intention, or miscalculation—is a terrible risk. 
'The possibility that the conflict could spin out of anyone's control remains high . . .. Russia has also brought its war to the Chernobyl and Zaporizhzhia nuclear reactor sites, violating international protocols and risking widespread release of radioactive materials. Efforts by the International Atomic Energy Agency to secure these plants so far have been rebuffed.'
The scientists also highlight that Russia brought the war to Chernobyl and Zaporizhzhia nuclear reactor sites in August 20202,
Rachel Bronson, CEO of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists who developed the clock, said: 'The possibility that the conflict could spin out of anyone's control remains high' 
The scientists also highlight that Russia brought the war to Chernobyl and Zaporizhzhia nuclear reactor sites in August 20202, violating international protocols and risking widespread release of radioactive materials.
This move has also sparked fear of another nuclear disaster.
Vladimir Putin issued a chilling threat to use nuclear weapons against the West last September.
He vowed to use 'all means' to defend the regions, saying: 'If the territorial integrity of our country is threatened, we will use all available means to protect Russia and our people - this is not a bluff... I shall stress - by all means available to us. 
'Those trying to blackmail us with nuclear weapons should know that the tables can turn on them.' 
Mary Robinson, Chair of The Elders and former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said: 'The Doomsday Clock is sounding an alarm for the whole of humanity. We are on the brink of a precipice. 
'But our leaders are not acting at sufficient speed or scale to secure a peaceful and liveable planet. From cutting carbon emissions to strengthening arms control treaties and investing in pandemic preparedness, we know what needs to be done. The science is clear, but the political will is lacking. 
The clock has been sitting at 100 seconds from midnight since 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and global warming fears. Pictured is the clock's unveiling last year
'This must change in 2023 if we are to avert catastrophe. We are facing multiple, existential crises. Leaders need a crisis mindset.'
Ban Ki-moon, Deputy Chair of The Elders and former Secretary-General of the United Nations, shared that he helped unveil the symbolic timepiece three years ago when it was last moved.
'Today they are even closer to midnight, showing how much more perilous our world has become in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, extreme weather events and Russia's outrageous war on Ukraine,' Ki-moon said.
'Leaders did not heed the Doomsday Clock's warnings in 2020. We all continue to pay the price. In 2023 it is vital for all our sakes that they act.'
How close has the clock been to midnight in the last 75 years?
The closer to midnight the Doomsday Clock moves, the closer humanity is to annihilation.  
Since it was first set in 1947, it has moved backward eight times and forward 16 times.
This is how it has changed over the years:
Current Time - 2023 - Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists
Share or comment on this article: 
Doomsday Clock 2023: Ukraine war pushes humankind to 'brink of disaster'
Sunnycomb! Stunning new photos of the sun show hair-like strands of fiery plasma flowing from a...
A window into the past: Astronomers capture 21-million-year-old supernova that was a star more than eight...
An 'alien message' will be sent from Mars to Earth TOMORROW: Scientists are set to simulate an ET signal to...
The end of Netflix freeloaders: Password sharing is now BANNED in the US - here's what it means for you
Keep forgetting your ID on nights out? Your iPhone can now double up as a digital driver's license in these...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Married people who have affairs DON'T regret it! Cheaters show little remorse about their infidelity, study...
'I once wrote "my condoms" instead of my condolences in a family group': WhatsApp users reveal their...
UFO mania sweeps academia: A fifth of scholars and scientists say they've seen unidentified flying objects...
Why has the sun been so RED across the US recently? It has made for gorgeous photos in swathes of the...
Dream job? European Space Agency is paying 12 volunteers &pound;15,600 to spend two months lying in BED
REVEALED: Five iPhone keyboard hacks that you won't believe you lived without&nbsp;
Early glimpse of the dangers of AI: Fake image showing an explosion at the Pentagon goes viral on Twitter -...
Hook, line and sickener! Russian fisherman shares stomach-churning photos of fish that appears to have its...
While an estimated 300,000 people play Wordle daily, many are unaware of a secret 'hard mode', which can be found within the game's settings.
A new report from Bloomberg claims that Apple is working on selling iPhones and iPads as part of a hardware subscription service.
This is the latest move from the Google-owned social video giant, as it tries to compete in an increasingly crowded, and competitive market.
If approved, Project Skyway will connect the airspace above cities including Reading, Oxford, Milton Keynes, Cambridge, Coventry, and Rugby.
Instagram is launching two new ways for users to catch up with their feed - Following and Favourites - which will show posts in chronological order.
The smart bra features small ultrasound sensors in the lining, and was developed by Nextwear Technology, a wearables firm based in Abuja, Nigeria.
The research by University of Alberta is the first to pool figures from multiple studies to specifically examine how skin tone may affect the accuracy of heart data in wearables
Rome-based Bulgari spent three years developing the watch, which is crafted from sandblasted titanium as measures just 0.07 inches (1.8mm) thick.
Suzuki has announced that it's joining forces with Tokyo-based flying car firm SkyDrive to develop an electric, vertical takeoff and landing aircraft.
H2L, a Sony-backed company based in Tokyo, has developed an armband that uses electrical stimulation to deliver physical pain.
Like something from a horror film, the new robot's 'magnetic tentacle' would slowly creep into the mouth of a patient under under general anesthesia, University of Leeds scientists show.
Discover deals on home essentials and electricals
Apply AO.com voucher codes to save on home appliances
Check out the latest B&Q clearance for great offers
Save your pennies with eBay's deals
Keep yourselves entertained with these electrical offers
Find all the best Samsung deals on electronics
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
