New Zealand farmer Rodney Ng's mowed field troll goodbye to Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
EXCLUSIVE: Farmer turns his field into a devastating goodbye troll message to Jacinda Ardern - as he reveals why he and many Kiwis had enough of 'Saint Jacinda' after she revealed plan to quit as PM
Jacinda Ardern farewelled by farmer's mown message
'Light-hearted tribute' visible from planes landing at Auckland 
David Southwell For Daily Mail Australia
 15:04, 23 January 2023 
 21:52, 23 January 2023 
 farmer has turned one of his fields into an elaborate troll to farewell outgoing Kiwi Prime Minister 
Vegetable grower Rodney Ng, whose property sits under a flight path into Auckland Airport on the North Island, has given those coming in to land something to remember Ms Ardern by after mowing the giant words 'End of an error' into a field - the pointed pun fully intended.
Mr Ng who provides produce for local supermarkets, told Daily Mail Australia it took three people about seven hours to mow the enormous letters, each roughly 40metres in length, into his 4ha field. 
The farmer, 40, said he was motivated by the 'immense pressure' New Zealand's farmers are under due from a 'tsunami' regulations introduced by Ms Ardern's Labour government, including a 'fart tax' on carbon emissions from livestock. 
'The fart tax is a hard one for beef and dairy but there are many,' he said.
'The mental health of many New Zealand farmers has been a big concern over the last few years,' he said.
'We're under a lot of pressure with increasing regulations and new legislations.' 
New Zealand leafy greens grower Rodney Ng has marked the end of Jacinda Ardern's prime ministership with a giant send-off
Mr Ng, who is a third-generation farmer, said he hoped his cheeky message would give people a laugh
Mr Ng posted a video showing the process of mowing the rotation cover crop, where he uses GPS guidance to carve out the letters. 
As he goes about his task superimposed captions read: 'Hey Cindy, the farmers of NZ would like to wish you all the best!' 
'We had our ups and downs, we don't agree on with a heck of a lot but that's water under the bridge.
'We can all celebrate now. You were one of a kind that's for sure.' 
A third generation farmer, Mr Ng said planes passed over his property every 30 minutes during Auckland Airport's operating hours.
'I've had a fellow grower say his daughter saw the field art (from a plane), but still yet to get confirmation,' he said. 
The response to the send-off had been 'very positive', according to Mr Ng.
The field art on Mr Ng's South Island property took three men seven hours to produce 
Those flying into Auckland Airport should be able to look down and read the not so fond farewell to Jacinta Ardern
Ms Ardern announced her shock resignation from political life last Thursday saying she had 'nothing left in the tank'.
The 42-year-old became an international figure known for her brand of 'empathy' politics, especially demonstrated in the aftermath of the 2019 Christchurch mosque mass shooting where she became a figure of national healing.
Why you WON'T be seeing new Kiwi PM's wife by his side - as...
Are YOU at risk of burnout? Experts reveal 5 simple steps to...
However, after coasting back into power on the strength of New Zealand's initially successful efforts to keep Covid at bay, her government's harsh border measures, vaccine mandates and lockdowns began to polarise the country.
Although still admired internationally, Ms Ardern's domestic fortunes have taken a dive as New Zealanders face soaring prices, unaffordable houses and rampant crime along with a ballooning street gang culture. 
The ruling Labour party has been mired in poor poll results that if reflected in the October general election will see it swept out of office. 
In his social media posts Mr Ng included hashtags to Groundswell NZ, which is a protest movement of Kiwi farmers against 'unworkable regulations' that have come under Labor's five-year reign.   
A website for the group lists nine water, bio-diversity and climate change regulations and taxes including the Agricultural Emissions Tax, which charges cattle farmers for the methane released by cow burps, farts and urine. 
Mr Ng said that the regulations and taxes being heaped onto New Zealand farmers were putting them 'under immense pressure'
The 40-metre letters were mown into a 4ha field with the help of GPS and should last at least three weeks
Jacinda Ardern (pictured) strutted the world stage as a darling of the political Left
Mr Ng said his cropped goodbye tribute to 'Cindy' should be legible for at least three weeks.
'I'll give it a refresh if needed,' he said.
Ms Ardern will be formally replaced as prime minister by former police and Covid response minister Chris Hipkins on Wednesday.
Jacinda Ardern quit as PM saying she wanted to be remembered for her kindness. But that's an arrogant slap in the face to all the Kiwis who'll never forget her cruelty during Covid, writes CAMERON CARPENTER
In her final speech as 
 was asked what she wants to be remembered for. 
She responded with a single line: 'As someone who always tried to be kind.'
For more than two years New Zealanders were locked out of their own country as Ardern imposed some of the harshest Covid restrictions in the world.
Like many New Zealanders living overseas, I will not remember this time as a display of her trademark brand of kindness and empathy.
Ms Adern (pictured centre) announced her shock resignation as New Zealand's leader last week and will officially relinquish the role on Wednesday to Chris Hipkins (pictured right)
I moved to Sydney with the understanding that I was always a three-hour flight away from my family in Wellington, but like the vast majority of expats I was unable to return home for more than two years.
This really hit home for me when my mother, a mental health nurse, was kicked down the stairs by a patient and suffered a devastating concussion, and Ardern's draconian border closures meant I couldn't be there for her when she needed me most.
In a staggering human rights violation, New Zealand citizens overseas had to apply to enter their own country, with a small number of places only available via an online lottery system.
More than 50,000 Kiwis applied to gain entry every month, but only 5,000 were let in.
In a staggering human rights violation, New Zealand citizens overseas had to apply to enter their own country, writes Cameron Carpenter
And then, once you won a place, you'd have to pay more $3,100 to stay at a government-run quarantine hotel for 14 days, where the Army guarded the entrances to ensure no one left. 
Detainees were only allowed out of their room for just one hour a day - usually for a walk around the hotel's carpark.
But those rules, which we were told were absolutely necessary to stop the spread of Covid and save lives, didn't apply if you were rich or a sports star.
A loophole allowed the wealthy and the political elite to avoid hotel quarantine completely by travelling to New Zealand on private jets and then self-isolating at home.
New Zealand citizen Paul Mullally was forced to say his final goodbye to his dying mother via a video link due to Jacinda Ardern's draconian Covid rules 
International sports stars were able to jump the quarantine queue to play in New Zealand, and the government paid for their stays in managed isolation. They were also granted training exemptions allowing them to leave the facilities.
But ordinary Kiwis were locked out of the country, with countless stories of overseas-based New Zealanders missing births, funerals, weddings and other events.
New Zealand citizen Paul Mullally was forced to say his final goodbye to his dying mother via a video link, because his application for the family to return, filed nine days earlier, was still pending when she passed away. 
Pregnant New Zealand journalist Charlotte Bellis, who was stranded in Afghanistan was forced to turn to the Taliban for help after being unable to return to New Zealand to give birth due to the rules.
Charlotte Bellis, 35, a New Zealand journalist who had been working in the Middle East, had been struggling to return home to give birth due to Jacinda Ardern's strict Covid rules
Only after her story sparked outrage internationally did New Zealand officials back down and offer her a spot in quarantine.
She accepted, as pregnancy can be a death sentence in Afghanistan because of the poor state of maternity care.
During the initial stages of the pandemic, Ardern's decision to limit entry was accepted by most New Zealanders as we still knew so little about Covid-19.
But Kiwis were still banned from entering until February 2022 - even though the majority of the nation was vaccinated and the Omicron variant proved to have a much lower fatality rate.
This put New Zealand completely out-of-step with the rest of the world, which was already learning how to live with the virus. 
For international tourists hoping to travel to New Zealand the wait was even longer, with Ardern refusing to open the borders until October. 
Ardern tried to justified the harsh controls by saying 'not everyone could come home when they wanted to, but COVID could not come in when it wanted to, either.'
But despite her flimsy justifications, many Kiwis will forever associate her decision to stop them from entering her own country with heartache.
At the end of her resignation speech Ardern declared, 'I hope I leave behind a belief that you can be kind. Empathetic, but decisive. Optimistic, but focused.'
For New Zealanders like me, she leaves behind the lasting memory of the cruelty of her pandemic policies.
And to add insult to injury, her surprise resignation because she 'doesn't have enough in the tank' leaves the country in limbo, with no obvious successor, a struggling economy and inflation surging out of control.
Share or comment on this article: 
New Zealand farmer Rodney Ng's mowed field troll goodbye to Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
