Nicola Sturgeon set to pass gender law change that would help rapists and child abusers change sex | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Nicola Sturgeon 'personally blocks law change that would stop rapists and child abusers from changing sex' as fight over Scotland's gender reform bill rages on with First Minister facing opposition from within the SNP
A final vote on the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill will happen today
Long debate around the controversial bill meant vote couldn't be done yesterday
MP Joanna Cherry said MSPs are scared to be branded 'transphobic'
Protesters screamed 'shame on all of you' after MSPs voted on gender reforms
David Wilcock, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline
Michael Blackley And Tom Eden For The Scottish Daily Mail
 08:54, 22 December 2022 
 14:41, 22 December 2022 
 was today accused of personally blocking attempts to control the actions of transgender rapists and paedophiles as the row over Scotland's new gender law deepened.
The SNP leader was blasted at First Minister's Questions as she pushed controversial reforms through the Scottish Parliament after days of fierce argument.
MSPs will pass the Gender Recognition Reform Bill later today after the vote was postponed from last night amid bitter political fighting at Holyrood and demonstrations on the streets of 
The bill makes it easier to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) on the basis of self-declaration and removing the need for a gender dysphoria diagnosis for anyone aged 16 or older.
But critics have argued it would allow violent male sex offenders who transition, including rapists and child abusers, to force victims to use their female pronouns in court and and access female-only spaces after conviction.
A bid to block this loophole by inserting a clause ensuring those on the sex offenders' register cannot obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) failed by just one vote.
Today Tory leader Douglas Ross laid blame for its failure directly as Ms Sturgeon's door, saying: 'The government stopped that amendment by a single vote. The First Minister's own vote means a man standing trial for rape can claim they're a woman and force a victim to call them ''she.''
'Why did the First Minister vote for this?'
His frontbench colleague Rachael Hamilton later said the law was 'a threat to women in all their diversity'. But another Tory frontbencher, Jamie Green, plans to rebel and vote for the law.
Today Tory leader Douglas Ross laid blame for its failure directly as Ms Sturgeon's door, saying: 'The First Minister's own vote means a man standing trial for rape can claim they're a woman and force a victim to call them ''she.''
Nicola Sturgeon will set up a bitter fight with Westminster and stoke a burgeoning civil war within the SNP today as she pushes controversial gender reforms through the Scottish Parliament
MP Joanna Cherry has said fellow SNP representatives in Westminster and Holyrood are 'scared to speak out' on gender reform for fear of being branded transphobic
MSPs were scheduled to vote on the Gender Recognition Reform Bill yesterday but prolonged debate means the vote will now take place today. Pictured, protestors outside the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh
The Bill, which is expected to pass, would make it easier for trans people to obtain a gender recognition certificate
Rape victims 'could have to use attacker's new pronouns in court'
Rape victims will need to call their attackers by female pronouns in court if they change gender, MSPs have warned.
Concerns have been raised that a man who rapes a woman and then changes gender before a trial would then have to be referred to as 'she' or 'her'.
Scottish Conservative community safety spokesman Russell Findlay, who has sought clarification on the issue from the Justice Secretary and senior Police Scotland officials, said: 'It sounds absurd, ludicrous and unimaginable, but the answers that I got were worryingly vague and completely unconvincing.'
Nationalist MSP Michelle Thomson, who previously spoke about her personal experience of rape as a teenager, failed in a bid to ensure that gender recognition certificate applications are paused if an applicant has been charged with sexual assault and would not be granted until the case is disposed of.
In the vote at the Scottish parliament, 61 MSPs voted for and 61 against, only for the amendment to fall on the casting vote of Deputy Presiding Officer Liam McArthur.
Mrs Thomson told MSPs: 'During stage 2, and again today, Russell Findlay pointed out that a woman could end up having to refer to her attacker as 'she'.
'Do members in the chamber understand how that could represent an opportunity for abusers to exert power and control over their victims?'
Social Justice Secretary Shona Robison said the Government had committed to regulations to amend the sex offender notification requirements so that people who are on the register would be required to notify police of the details if they applied for legal gender recognition.
She added: 'That will mean additional information will be available to help to identify an individual and inform their subsequent management under the multi-agency public protection arrangements.
'That will allow action to be taken either in relation to the application itself, if necessary, or as part of the broader police role in managing the registered sex offender population.'
Ahead of the votes, Miss Robison wrote to three MSPs, including Mrs Thomson, asking them to withdraw proposed changes to the legislation or risk delaying its passage through parliament.
She reportedly warned them that their amendments would put the Bill at 'serious risk' of being outwith Holyrood's competence, and said the changes risked being incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights.
Ms Sturgeon insisted that the law would protect women, saying: 'My argument is not – and it has never been and never will be – that these are not very real ways in which predatory men abuse women. 
'My argument is that none of these ways are created by this bill. Nor would it be the case that any of these ways are addressed by denying rights to trans people.
'The fact of the matter is a man who wants to abuse a woman, even a man who wants to masquerade as a woman in order to do so, does not need a gender recognition certificate to do that, and nor does having a gender recognition certificate give that man any more ability or rights to do that than is currently the case.
'What we must focus on are the men who abuse women, the predatory and abusive men who do that, and this government always will in a range of different ways.'
As the heated debate surrounding the Bill rolled into a third day, it emerged that some feminist campaigners plan to challenge it through the courts, claiming it puts women at risk.
The UK Government also warned that court action by Westminster was 'on the table'.
Last night MP and former frontbencher Joanna Cherry, a leading critic of the law, said SNP politicians in Westminster and Holyrood were 'scared to speak out' on gender reform. She said there were only 'minimal safeguards' in the legislation, which 'raises problems for the safety, dignity and privacy of women'.
The Bill was initially set to go to a final vote on Wednesday, but it was pushed to this afternoon due to the debate over amendments. Tuesday and Wednesday's debates went longer than any other in the history of the Scottish Parliament, with MSPs sitting until around 1.30am this morning. 
 have attempted to make the consideration of amendments take as long as possible by repeatedly raising points of order and pushing every amendment to a vote, even if the proposer chose not to do so.    
Hundreds of protesters gathered outside Holyrood yesterday afternoon to express their opposition to the Bill. 
And ministers in London have already warned that changing the rules in Scotland will cause chaos.
Ms Cherry, who is also a leading KC, said: 'Before I went into politics I worked as a specialist sex crimes prosecutor and I know that some men, some predatory men, will take advantage of loopholes in legislation to get access to vulnerable women.
'The Scottish Parliament isn't sovereign in the way that the British Parliament is, and its legislation can be subject to judicial review.
'I suspect that we will see a challenge to this Bill from grassroots feminist organisations but I really hope it doesn't come to that. I don't think it's too late to pause the Bill and to look at some of the issues which I believe haven't been looked at properly. Those issues involve safeguards in the legislation.'
Ms Cherry added that she 'can't understand' why a narrow majority of MSPs voted against an amendment preventing rapists and violent sexual offenders from taking advantage of the legislation.
Aileen McHarg, professor of public law and human rights at Durham University, told the BBC that a legal challenge is 'very likely'.
It is understood that the UK Government is likely to ask for changes after the legislation is passed to resolve any cross-border issues or impacts on reserved areas, such as issuing pasports and ricing licences, before the Bill receives Royal Assent.
During this 28-day process, it could propose additional safeguards to minimise the impact of the legislation on other parts of the UK.
A UK Government source said: 'It is not all or nothing. It is not 28 days where there is nothing to do except mount a legal challenge. There are things that are short of that.' But they added that a legal challenge is 'still on the cards' if the issues raised remain unresolved.
As well as opposition to the Bill from members of the public, including author JK Rowling, experts believe there could be grounds for a legal challenge by the UK Government. Michael Foran, lecturer in public law at the University of Glasgow, said the UK Government can use a 'Section 35' order precluding Holyrood's Presiding Officer from submitting a Bill for Royal Assent if the legislation has an adverse impact on law in reserved areas.
He claimed there are 'reasonable grounds' to believe that Bill would 'adversely affect the operation of the law relating to equal opportunities'.
Critics sound the alarm over 'security risk' as Whitehall...
JK Rowling will launch women-only service for victims of...
Children as young as FIFTEEN will be able to legally change...
A number of proposed amendments to the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill were rejected by MSPs
A self-ID system could be described as a 'modification of the law relating to the operation of the Equality Act in Scotland and so regulates a reserved matter', he said.
Mr Foran added: 'In that instance, [the Section 35 order] provides the option for the Secretary of State to intervene.'
During yesterday's debates, as a long list of proposed amendments were voted down, an ex-minister who quit in protest at the reforms said the message being sent to women and girls is that 'you don't matter'.
Former SNP community safety minister Ash Regan urged fellow MSPs to reject the Bill if they have 'any doubt at all'.
She said: 'This Bill may not spell it out, but I believe that we shouldn't delude ourselves: it comprehensively undermines the single-sex exemptions. We're being conditioned to accept male-bodied people in women's single-sex spaces. Why? Who does that benefit?
'I'd say to my fellow parliamentarians that it boils down to this: do you think women will be more or less safe as a result of this law? And if you have any doubt at all, then you cannot vote for it.
Protesters are seen during a candlelit vigil over what they believe is a loss of women's rights 
'I'm very, very sad to say that the message today that's been sent out to women and girls in Scotland is that you don't matter. So I'm going to vote as if women do matter and I will be voting against the Bill.'
Scottish Labour deputy leader Jackie Baillie, who lodged amendments attempting to set out exemptions, said: 'These amendments directly address the concerns of women and women's organisations while still protecting the rights of trans people seeking a gender recognition certificate.
'They deliver – word for word – the Equality Act provisions; they seek the practical provision of guidance where it would be a genuine dereliction of duty to leave a vacuum.
'They respond to the concerns of the UN rapporteur on eliminating violence for women and children. I specifically asked if she would be reassured by these amendments and she said yes.
'We have responsibility as parliamentarians to ensure that we pass the best possible legislation. If we're serious about giving single-sex spaces protection, while protecting the integrity of the Bill, this is the opportunity to do so.'
But Social Justice Secretary Shona Robison told MSPs that 'absolutely nothing in the Equality Act is affected by this Bill'.
She added: 'Single-sex exceptions are absolutely guaranteed in the same way as they have been since the 2010 Act came into being.
'I have no intention, my government has no intention, and this Bill has no intention of changing that whatsoever.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Nicola Sturgeon set to pass gender law change that would help rapists and child abusers change sex
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
