How British Fyre-festival brothers ran $800m taxpayer-funded start-up into the ground | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Has the tech bubble burst for British Fyre-festival brothers? Siblings behind $800m taxpayer-funded start-up are accused of hosting 'drink-fuelled parties' and leaving staff and customers millions of pounds out of pocket
Pollen was run by Callum and Liam Negus-Fancey until it went bust in August
Former employees claimed there was a party culture that saw drinking at office
The company was once worth $800millionand staff would go on lavish retreats
 17:04, 21 December 2022 
 08:57, 22 December 2022 
It's the meteoric rise you're used to hearing about in the movies: A pair of British brothers drop out of school and begin selling music festival tickets from their car - before their business explodes into a global events empire valued at $800m. 
For a decade it seemed the only way was up for Callum and Liam Negus-Fancey, aged 32 and 29 respectively, after their 'revolutionary' peer-to-peer marketing firm StreetTeam went from strength to strength - thanks in part to a cash injection from the 
's Future Fund, supported by British taxpayers. 
By 2020 they were not only selling tickets to other festivals but putting on their own events at big-name venues like the MGM Grand in Las Vegas and the Grand Hyatt Playa del Carmen Resort in Mexico.
By 2022, the Negus-Fancey brothers had raised more than $200million from venture capitalists. But in August this year the firm seemingly went bust overnight, owing millions of dollars to vendors and customers in unpaid refunds.
For a decade it seemed the only way was up for Callum (right) and Liam (left) Negus-Fancey (pictured together), aged 32 and 29 respectively, after their 'revolutionary' peer-to-peer marketing firm StreetTeam went from strength to strength - thanks in part to a cash injection from the UK government's Future Fund, supported by British taxpayers.
The Chief Revenue Officer Liam (pictured) shared pictures on social media using IV drips to cure hangovers
Singer Justin Bieber performs at XS Nightclub as part of a three day experience by Pollen in 2021
Made.com customer is left without her £2,000 sofa, woman has...
These are the most EXPENSIVE cities for renters: New York...
was studying economics, philosophy and politics at A-level when he decided to leave school at 17 to start his own business. 
Following in the footsteps of his father, who also worked in events, he began organising late-night raves and parties for 16-18 year olds, before going into business with his brother.
The initial idea was simple; the company, first called Physical Network, helped move tickets for events by asking young 'ambassadors', usually aged 16-25, to sell them to their friends in return for perks and experiences - which were negotiated with the event organisers. 
The business took off and the brothers re-branded to Verve in 2014, under the umbrella of London-based StreetTeam Software Limited, which packaged music-festival tickets with stays at luxury hotels. 
The firm continued to grow and in 2018 they changed Verve's name to Pollen, and expanded to Poland and the US, setting up offices in Los Angeles. 
They worked with music industry titans like Justin Bieber, 50 Cent and Scooter Braun. Forbes named the brothers in its Europe 30 under 30 list in 2019. 
Singer Jaden Smith performs under his stage name Jaden at XS Nightclub as part of a three day experience organised by Pollen in October last year 
Pollen employees described Callum (pictured) as a 'grafter' and a 'hustler'. In an open letter to staff which he shared on LinkedIn, he said he was kicked out of six schools and 'classed as an underachiever', which made him 'hate learning'. He said he wanted to create a diverse workplace where 'everyone feels like they belong.'
By 2022, the Negus-Fancey brothers had raised more than $200million from venture capitalists (pictured The Vamps performing at a Pollen event)
Pollen employees described Callum as a 'grafter' and a 'hustler'. In an open letter to staff which he shared on LinkedIn, he said he was kicked out of six schools and 'classed as an underachiever', which made him 'hate learning'. He said he wanted to create a diverse workplace where 'everyone feels like they belong.'
His brother Liam was Chief Revenue Officer who according to former staff was not often in the office. In one picture shared on social media he was seen attached to a drip alongside the caption: 'What hangover?'
A former neighbour of Liam told MailOnline: 'He was a nice enough bloke in person, but became somewhat of a nightmare neighbour with round-the-clock loud music, and very little regard to people who had jobs to go to. I'm glad he's gone.'
Workers at Pollen claimed there was a 'frat party' culture at the firm, reported Insider. One worker told the publication she was given mimosas on her first day while another alleged they did shots 'at 10am on a Tuesday.' 
So-called 'lock-in' parties were also claimed to have been arranged at ice-rinks and karaoke bars, which workers claimed were an excuse to 'get completely obliterated.' A company rep told Insider that only those who were of legal drinking age were served alcohol.
Now, the brothers appear to have fallen prey to yet another tech bubble, after a 300 per cent surge in sales in 2021 - caused by the lifting of Covid restrictions - filled investors with a perhaps misplaced confidence. 
In April investors had pumped $150m into the company, giving Pollen an $800m valuation, with the firm eyeing up $1billion in gross bookings for 2023, according to a presentation seen by 
Just four months later, Pollen was filing for bankruptcy, despite the company 'delivering $100m in revenue between September 2021 and March 2022', according to a Pollen representative. 
Liam Negus-Fancey (pictured) and his brother spent heavily on parties while running their company into the ground, according to claims made by former employees 
Callum Negus-Fancey, founded Verve, a company that bundled music festival tickets with stays at luxury resorts.
In April investors had pumped $150m into the company, giving Pollen an $800m valuation (Event posted on Pollen's Instagram)
Pollen, according to documents and the testimony of employees and customers, appears to have suffered in the long term from a string of cancelled events between 2020 and 2022 which saw its refunds and debts to venues soar. The company's recent public accounts show the firm made a loss of £30million in 2020.
In May this year, two months before going bust, the company allegedly spent £52,776 on a villa in Ibiza for 20 employees for a period of eight weeks. Pollen maintains the property was used 'solely for business purposes', with Callum's expense report listing it as 'accommodation and entertainment for key clients.' 
His brother Liam married his girlfriend on the Spanish party island just days after the expense was made. 
But perhaps investors should have heard alarm bells ringing following Pollen's Departure Festival fiasco in January of this year, just three months before they handed over $150m. 
In scenes reminiscent of the now notorious Fyre Festival, the seven-day event on the shores of Playa del Carmen in Mexico promised 70 artists performing across four custom-built stages, each worth $300,000. 
In scenes reminiscent of the now notorious Fyre Festival, the seven-day Departure Festival on the shores of Playa del Carmen in Mexico promised 70 artists performing across four custom-built stages, each worth $300,000.
The cancellation of Departure Festival came after the Omicron variant had been sweeping through the region in the weeks prior
39 of the 360 events put on by Pollen over the past year were cancelled (pictured: Pollen event)
However punters claimed they were informed on the opening day that the Departure Festival would be kicking off a day later than planned - before it was cancelled the very next morning due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. 
The cancellation came after the Omicron variant had been sweeping through the region in the weeks prior. 
TikTok user Cyrus Keefer, who was hoping to attend the festival, fumed: 'It was as if it never existed... Like, the box office where we got our wristbands from - gone. The stages, the staff, and the crew - they're gone.' 
More than 4,000 people had bought tickets to the event, with some claiming to have not received a refund by early November.  
A Pollen representative told Insider that all 4,028 people who bought tickets were refunded, and that those who did not get their money back must have had a an 'issue on the customer's side'. They said all costs were incurred by Pollen. 
Covid also saw off Pollen's Golden Sand festival that same month, also in Mexico, which had big stars billed, including 50 Cent, Fat Joe and Lil' Kim. 
An event headlined by reggaeton star J Balvin was postponed until June but was also ultimately cancelled, as were 39 of the 360 events put on by Pollen over the past year. 
'It is always a difficult decision to cancel any of our Experiences,' a Pollen representative said. 'We never want to let our customers down, nor the local community and our partners whose livelihoods would be impacted by a cancellation.' 
Just weeks after receiving $150m in investments, Pollen cut around 200 jobs (pictured: Pollen event)
The company was overwhelmed by refund requests which cost them more than $75million since the onset of the pandemic, reported 
. By July, it reportedly owed the Grand Oasis Cancun and Las Vegas Hilton at Resorts World around $3.6m and $1m respectively. 
Just weeks after receiving $150m in investments, Pollen cut around 200 jobs. Tech industry experts suggested the jobs bloodbath may have been a cost cutting measure put forward by investors as part of their agreement. The firm had hired more than 400 staff in total. 
In August the firm was hit with a winding up petition. The order was issued by creditors 101 Ways Limited, according to the HM Tribunals website. Pollen told the Telegraph the debt had been settled and a court official said the petition was later withdrawn.
The same month, an agency complained on LinkedIn that it was owed £24,000 by Pollen, after the firm delayed its payroll for July. 
Callum Negus-Fancey is understood to have told staff in August: 'I'm afraid I don't have a meaningful update yet. I understand the impact this is having and I'm sorry I can't share more.' 
Announcing its insolvency in August, it said in a statement: 'Despite strong growth since Streetteam Software Ltd.'s inception eight years ago, the knock-on effects of COVID-19 over the last two years, which decimated much of the travel sector, together with the tech stock crash and current consumer uncertainty in light of global economic conditions, put too much pressure on the business whilst at a critical stage of a scale-up's maturity.' 
MailOnline has contacted Pollen for comment.
Inside Self-Destruction of Pollen, the Startup Once Worth $800 Million
Bloomberg - Are you a robot?
Share or comment on this article: 
How British Fyre-festival brothers ran $800m taxpayer-funded start-up into the ground
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
