Republican rebel Dan Bishop tears into Squad member Cori Bush for calling Byron Donalds a 'prop'  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
'He ain't no prop': Republican House rebel Dan Bishop tears into Squad member Cori Bush for attacking Byron Donalds' nomination for Speaker
Donalds is the first black Republican to be nominated for Speaker of the House
Progressive Missouri Rep. Cori Bush called the nomination 'pathetic' 
GOP Rep.-elect Dan Bishop of North Carolina blasted 'grotesque, racist' rhetoric 
'Nobody asked Cori Bush her opinion on the matter,' said Donalds
Geoff Earle, Deputy U.S. Political Editor For Dailymail.com
Elizabeth Elkind, Politics Reporter For Dailymail.Com
 19:53, 5 January 2023 
 23:37, 5 January 2023 
 Rep.-elect Dan Bishop of North Carolina accused opponents of 'grotesque, racist' rhetoric after a Democratic lawmaker called black Rep.-elect Byron Donalds a 'prop' by arch 
 who are backing him for House speaker. 
 on the House floor on Thursday while making a nominating speech for Donalds, who burst into the limelight Wednesday after a group of GOP rebels fell behind him as their alternate candidate for speaker in their 
Democratic Rep.-elect Cori Bush of Missouri tweeted that Donalds was a 'prop' whose candidacy upholds 'white supremacy,' drawing rebukes from both Donalds and Bishop.
'I've spent a good bit of time with Mr. Donalds, especially lately. He ain't no prop!' Bishop said, to applause from Republicans who gathered to try once again to elect a speaker.
Rep.-elect Dan Bishop (R-NC) said Rep.-elect Byron Donalds 'ain't no prop,' and blasted Rep.-elect Cori Bush, who suggested he was. A group of arch conservatives including Bishop have been voting for Donalds for speaker while resisting Kevin McCarthy's bid
Lauren Boebert tells Trump to call Kevin McCarthy and tell...
'These are legislative terrorists who have no problem...
'Nobody asked': Byron Donalds fires back at Cori Bush for...
Byron Donalds says it is 'up to' Kevin McCarthy if he drops...
'I know Byron... He's a man of personal conviction,' he said of the second-term lawmaker from Florida.
Incoming House minority leader Rep. Hakeem Jeffries of New York avoided directly responding to a question about it during a press conference Thursday.
Bishop had earlier made the same point on Fox News.  
'That’s so unbecoming... it's time to get past some things that we have been doing for far too long and now is a great time to do it,' he said.
Republican Rep. Byron Donalds of Florida fired back at Democratic Rep. Cori Bush for suggesting he was a 'prop' in the speaker race because he supports white supremacy. 
Democrats cheered for Rep.-elect Hakeem Jeffries of New York when Bishop said the House 'could have nominated the first black speaker of the House of Representatives'
There was a nod to racial politics in Bishop's earlier remarks. 
'Yesterday, we could have nominated the first black speaker of the House of Representatives,' he began. That got Democrats on their feet and shouting out 'Hakeem!' as they rallied around their own leader, who is the first African American to lead either party in the House or Senate. Democrats have pointedly noted that Jeffries continues to get the highest vote totals for speaker amid the GOP split.
Rep.-elect Chip Roy of Texas mentioned race when he nominated Donalds on the floor Wednesday, referencing Dr. Martin Luther King's 'I Have a Dream' speech.
'We do not seek to judge people by the color of their skin, but rather the content of their character,' he said. 
The defense came after Donalds himself fired back at Bush for suggesting he was a 'prop.'
The Florida congressman-elect said, 'nobody asked' the Squad member for her opinion, asked her for a policy debate and told her not to be a 'crab in a barrel.'
When announcing the nomination in the first round, Roy noted the historic nature of having two black candidates for House Speaker. It came after 
 Rep. Pete Aguilar of California nominated Jeffries for the gavel multiple times.
It earned a standing ovation from both sides of the House chamber - but Bush was not moved.
'He is a prop,' Bush, who is also black, wrote on Twitter on Wednesday afternoon.
Bush dismissed the enthusiasm around the historic nature of Rep. Byron Donalds' nomination for House Speaker
Rep. Byron Donalds of Florida responds to Democratic Rep. Cori Bush's comments that he was a 'prop' for the Republicans
Lauren Boebert tells Trump to call Kevin McCarthy and tell...
'These are legislative terrorists who have no problem...
'Nobody asked': Byron Donalds fires back at Cori Bush for...
Byron Donalds says it is 'up to' Kevin McCarthy if he drops...
'Despite being Black, he supports a policy agenda intent on upholding and perpetuating white supremacy. His name being in the mix is not progress—it's pathetic.'
'Nobody asked Cori Bush her opinion on the matter. Before you judge my agenda, let's have a debate over the policies and the outcomes. Until then, don't be a crab in a barrel!' Donalds responded. 
Donalds was also asked about Bush's comments during an appearance on Fox Business on Thursday morning and said: Man, that sucked, man, to be honest with you, man ... If you see a Black man rising, let the man rise, even if you don't agree with him.' 
Former GOP Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia slammed Bush's comments as racist. 
'Congresswoman, this is racism, and you should be held accountable. It's disgraceful, disgusting, and dishonorable,' Collins replied to the post.
Republican Utah Sen. Mike Lee said, '[I]f you can't disagree with your colleague...without accusing him of racism, you might be part of the problem.'
Asked by DailyMail.com about his reaction to 
 supporting McCarthy, Donalds - a supporter of the ex-president himself - brushed off the high-profile backer.
'President Trump has been in that position for several months. Knowing President Trump, he doesn't change his mind,' Donalds began.
'That's all well and good, but the members are going to decide this process. And you know, that's, that's no disrespect at all to President Trump. That's just the reality of the House.'
Donalds joined the GOP rebellion on the third round, by which point, McCarthy's critics had all coalesced around GOP Rep. Jim Jordan, who has repeatedly said he does not want the gavel.
Then on Wednesday, Donalds was nominated by Texas Rep. Chip Roy in the first round and Boebert in the second round.
He told reporters on Wednesday that he did not 'actually' desire the Speakership, adding, 'I really never came here to try to be in leadership.'
House Republicans have been in disarray, and without a majority leader, since January 3
The lack of leadership has produced multiple heated moments on the House floor between GOP members for and against Rep. Kevin McCarthy
'But I also understand that, you know, part of my responsibility is to make sure that our conference gets to a point where we are doing the things in an effective and constructive way.'
Unlike Jordan, however, who also said he did not want the role he was being nominated for on Tuesday - Donalds has voted for himself in all three rounds on Wednesday. 
Donalds originally supported McCarthy but has since called for more discussions and meetings for his party to work out a compromise.
However, he told reporters that the fight may not be over yet for the current House GOP chief.
'I don't think we're there at this point,' he said when asked if McCarthy should step aside. 'I think there's a lot of members in the chamber who want to have serious conversations about how we can bring this all, you know, to a close.'
'But I'm not going to speak for Kevin, and that's something that he and his team got to figure out.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Republican rebel Dan Bishop tears into Squad member Cori Bush for calling Byron Donalds a 'prop' 
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
