Nicola Sturgeon condemns 'decapitate TERFs' sign seen near SNP politicians at pro-trans rights rally | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Nicola Sturgeon condemns 'decapitate TERFs' placard seen near SNP politicians at Glasgow pro-trans rights rally - as First Minister calls on UK ministers to 'have the guts' to appear before Holyrood committee over Westminster's block on her gender reforms
Nicola Sturgeon condemns placards seen at a pro-trans rights rally in Glasgow
Police have launched a probe after receiving a report about one of the signs
SNP politicians were pictured near a 'decapitate TERFs' banner during the demo
Greg Heffer, Political Correspondent For Mailonline
 13:47, 23 January 2023 
 13:59, 23 January 2023 
 today condemned placards seen at a pro-trans rights rally after 
 politicians were pictured near a 'decapitate TERFs' sign.
The SNP leader spoke out against banners on display at the 
 demonstration on Saturday, which came in the wake of Westminster's block on her 
Police have launched a probe after receiving a report about one of the signs at the rally on the city's Buchanan Street, amid claims it represented a 'hate crime' and a 'public order offence'.
Harry Potter author J.K.Rowling, who has clashed with Ms Sturgeon over the Scottish Parliament's gender identity legislation, was among those to have raised concerns about the banners.
SNP MP Kirsten Oswald and Kaukab Stewart, one of the party's MSPs, were spotted near to the 'decapitate TERFs' placard - which used the acronmym for 'trans-exclusionary radical feminist'.
Ms Oswald has condemned the 'horrific' and 'unacceptable' sign and said it 'wasn't there when I joined the demo'.
And Ms Stewart has also said she was 'not aware of these hateful signs' when she attended the protest.
Ms Sturgeon today insisted it was not 'credible' to suggest that SNP politicians condoned the views expressed in offensive placards.
SNP MP Kirsten Oswald and Kaukab Stewart, one of the party's MSPs, were among those spotted near to the 'decapitate TERFs' placard
Nicola Sturgeon spoke out against the banners on display at the Glasgow demonstration on Saturday
Harry Potter author J.K.Rowling, who has clashed with Ms Sturgeon over the Scottish Parliament's gender identity legislation, raised concerns about the signs
The SNP leader told a press conference: 'All politicians have an obligation to contribute to debate that is civil and respectful and that's a responsibility I take seriously and would expect all members of my government and all elected members of my party to take seriously as well.
'That said, I have attended many demonstrations over my many years in politics now and probably on all of them I've seen placards or signs that would not align with my views on the topic of the demonstration.
'Certainly, from the images I have seen, that was the case at the demonstration on trans rights on Saturday.
'The placards that I have seen in absolutely no way, shape or form accord with my views and I would condemn the way in which those views were expressed and the views that were expressed there.
'And I don’t think it is fair or credible to suggest that the elected representatives who were there in any way share or condone those views.'
The Scottish First Minister also highlighted how she herself had been the subject of 'completely unacceptable' placards during demonstrations against her gender identity legislation.
'I think we’ve all got a responsibility to express ourselves, particularly elected representatives, in ways that we think are appropriate and I would certainly say that applies to me and others within my party,' she added.
But Ms Sturgeon later clarified she was not trying to draw 'an equivalence' between offensive placards about her and those that appeared to encourage violence against women.
Saturday's demonstration came in the wake of Prime Minister Rishi Sunak's decision to use a Section 35 power to block the Scottish Parliament's Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill from becoming law.
The Glasgow demonstration came in the wake of Westminster's block on tjhe Scottish Parliament's gender identity reforms
Ms Sturgeon claimed both Alister Jack, the Scottish Secretary, and Kemi Badenoch, the minister for women and equalities, had snubbed an invitation to appear before MSPs
Police investigate sign threatening to 'decapitate TERFs' at...
Nicola Sturgeon sparks backlash after appearing to advocate...
Ms Sturgeon today hit out at senior Westminster politicians for declining to appear before a Holyrood committee to explain the UK Government's decision.
She said: 'If you are going to outrageously and unacceptably ride roughshod over the democratically-elected Scottish Parliament.
'And seek to overturn decisions that the democratically-elected Scottish Parliament has arrived at, you should at least have the guts to turn up before a committee of the democratically-elected Scottish Parliament and set out your reasons for doing so and answer questions on that.'
The First Minister claimed that both Alister Jack, the Scottish Secretary, and Kemi Badenoch, the minister for women and equalities, had snubbed an invitation to appear before MSPs.
'The fact that Alistair Jack and Kemi Badenoch, so far, have declined to do so I think says quite a lot about the absence of confidence they have in their own position and how difficult they would clearly find it to answer questions on that from MSPs,' Ms Sturgeon added.
'But I hope they will both consider that and change their minds - if they've got confidence that they've done the right thing and done something that in any way shape or form is democratically defensible then what problem would they have sitting before a Scottish Parliament committee answering questions about it.'
A source close to Mr Jack said the Scottish Secretary had been unable to accept an invitation at very short notice but had not ruled out a possible future appearance.
But the source added that this was very unlikely in the present circumstances as Mr Jack had already set out his reasons for the use of Section 35, while it would be inapproriate due to the likelihood of legal action by the Scottish Government over the decision.
Share or comment on this article: 
Nicola Sturgeon condemns 'decapitate TERFs' sign seen near SNP politicians at pro-trans rights rally
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
