New Kiwi PM Chris Hipkins says it's about time New Zealand had 'a ginger at the top' | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil: How reclusive paedophile battled neck cancer and was fed through a tube at his £5m home after shameful fall from grace
Cabinet Office refers Boris Johnson to police over possible new lockdown breaches at Chequers and Downing Street amid claims ex-PM was visited by friends despite Covid restrictions
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey is slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as he clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
IOPC calls for a new national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation - in the wake of Wayne Couzens 'failures'
From giant letters H and S to the curious 'ERP': The hundreds of fading signs dating back to WWII that exist around Britain - but do YOU know what they mean?
Grenfell fire investigator who killed himself by overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT commit suicide, inquest rules
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Rishi Sunak denies 'dithering' over Suella Braverman's fate as Home Secretary STILL waits to hear if she will face sleaze probe on 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial tells how his life was 'destroyed' and demands answers over why it took so long for justice - as real killer is jailed for 29 years
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as cause of death is revealed
Chilling moment paedophile Rolf Harris warned children about 'touching' and 'yes feelings and no feelings' in 'Kids Can Say No' sex abuse educational video filmed during period of his offending in 1980s
New Kiwi PM says it's about time the country had 'a ginger at the top' and confesses he missed Anthony Albanese's first phone call as he's confirmed as Jacinda Ardern's successor
Chris Hipkins will be the next New Zealand prime minister
Mr Hipkins is considered a trusted political ally of Ms Ardern 
He was only nominee for the role in the leadership ballot
He made jokes about his hair colour and fashion sense
Olivia Day For Daily Mail Australia
 03:23, 21 January 2023 
 01:05, 22 January 2023 
Chris Hipkins has declared it is about time New Zealand had a 'ginger at the top' as he fronted the media for the first time as 
 leader admitted he doesn't have the best 'fashion sense in Parliament' after being asked how he would describe himself. 
'I'd say the people making those comments aren't standing in front of mirrors,' he joked during a press conference in Wellington on Saturday.   
Mr Hipkins said he at first missed a call from 
 but then confirmed he had spoken with the 
'I had a conversation with Anthony Albanese, it's great to be able to talk to him, I hope to catch up with him in person fairly soon,' he said.
'That clearly is a very important relationship for New Zealand.'
He also defended his handling of the Covid pandemic as the nation's responsible minister at the time, saying there are 'of course' some things he would have done differently if he had his time again.
Ms Ardern announced her shock resignation during an emotional press conference on Thursday, citing exhaustion after five and a half years in the job.
Chris Hipkins, New Zealand's incoming Labour leader admitted he doesn't have the best 'fashion sense in Parliament' after being asked how he would describe himself
Mr Hipkins also made jokes about the colour of his hair and said it was about time the country had 'a ginger on top' in his first press conference as Jacinda Ardern's successor
Her surprise exit - not known to her party room until just hours before - set Labour MPs racing to find a replacement as party leader and prime minister.
Mr Hipkins, a trusted ally of Ms Ardern, emerged as the consensus candidate and was the only nominee for the role in a hastily-convened leadership ballot.
He told the media he enjoyed cycling, gardening and DIY. 
'I am who I am,' he said.
The incoming PM agreed with one reporter's claim about in increased level of 'vitriol' in Kiwi politics, and said Ms Ardern had suffered 'absolutely intolerable and unacceptable behaviour'.  
Senior MPs stayed tight lipped as they held talks in Napier, where they had travelled for the year-starting party retreat, and back in Wellington on Friday.
No MP signalled their intention to run ahead of the nominations deadline at 9am on Saturday, staying true to a pact to keep discussions in-house.
Jacinda Ardern shuts down theories that misogyny and attacks...
Jacinda Ardern is praised for displaying an artwork with a...
Shortly after that deadline passed, party whip Duncan Webb informed MPs of the sole candidate: Mr Hipkins.
The 44-year-old will be ratified as party leader at a caucus meeting on Sunday, confirming his ascension to the top job in Kiwi politics.
The Remutaka MP is a well-liked member of parliament, known for his sense of humour and enjoyment of sausage rolls.
He is a Labour lifer, volunteering for the party at a young age, becoming president of his university student union and entering parliament in 2008 in the same intake as Ms Ardern.
Mr Hipkins spoke to media on the steps of Parliament House in Wellington on Saturday 
Jacinda Ardern announced her shock resignation as NZ PM on Thursday, citing exhaustion after five and a half years in the job
Mr Hipkins is a trusted political ally of Ms Ardern, and has been thrown difficult jobs - such as Covid-19 minister and police minister - when safe hands were needed.
The pair are close friends, taking their young children on play dates outside of parliament.
Mr Hipkins is also a political warrior with an enthusiasm for point-scoring that has led to him overstepping the mark.
His most notable episode for Australians came in 2017, when he used parliament to dig for information on the dual citizenship status of Barnaby Joyce, drawing censures from then-Australian foreign minister Julie Bishop and Ms Ardern in a rare trans-Tasman spat.
This week, Mr Hipkins was quickly seen by Labour MPs as their best choice to follow Ms Ardern, especially given Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson's decision to rule himself out of contention.
The 44-hour process did not allow grassroots Labour members or the Kiwi public a say in picking the prime minister.
Both Mr Hipkins and Ms Ardern argued that was crucial to allow stability for the government.
Mr Hipkins managed New Zealand's Covid-19 response at a time when many Kiwis protested the country's onerous restrictions
Mr Hipkins (pictured on Saturday) confirmed he had received a congratulatory phone call from Australian prime minister Anthony Albanese and spoken with Ms Ardern
'The most important thing is that we focus on a process that is swift, that ensures that the team was able to move quickly back to focusing on the issues that matter for New Zealand,' Ms Ardern said.
While the public was not included in the process, Mr Hipkins appears to be the popular pick.
A variety of polls from NZ media outlets and polling agencies confirmed he was the most popular Labour MP to follow in Ms Ardern's footsteps.
Local media is also reporting Labour MPs may re-think their deputy leader role, currently held by Kelvin Davis.
Kiritapu Allan and Carmel Sepuloni have been mooted as possible leadership partners for Mr Hipkins, who is likely to be sworn in as prime minister next week.
Ms Ardern will leave parliament altogether by April, ahead of a national election on October 14.
Mr Hipkins, a trusted ally of Ms Ardern, emerged as the consensus candidate and was the only nominee for the role in a hastily-convened leadership ballot
Who is Chris Hipkins, New Zealand's next prime minister? 
Chris Hipkins came to prominence as health and Covid-19 minister during New Zealand's response to the pandemic
Chris Hipkins was the sole nominee for the Labour leadership vacated by Jacinda Ardern and will become New Zealand's 41st prime minister.
* Born September 5, 1978 in Wellington
* Entered parliament in 2008, alongside Ms Ardern
* MP for Remutaka, in the Upper Hutt, the downtrodden northern suburbs of Wellington where he was raised
* Studied politics and criminology at Victoria University of Wellington, where he was student president
* Staffer to former prime minister Helen Clark
* Spent nine years in opposition, and upon winning government in 2017 was made education minister and Leader of the House by Ms Ardern
* Became health and COVID-19 minister in 2020, taking a prominent role through the pandemic
* Moved to police minister this year as concerns grew over law and order
* Known to Kiwis as a self-depreciating sausage roll enthusiast
* Married wife Jade at the prime minister's official residence in 2020, with finance minister Grant Robertson as his best man
* Has two children, a six-year-old son a four-year-old daughter
                                                                                                               
Share or comment on this article: 
New Kiwi PM Chris Hipkins says it's about time New Zealand had 'a ginger at the top'
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
