From stargazing to Viking battles - yet more ways to forge friendships and defeat loneliness | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
From stargazing to Viking battles - yet more ways to forge friendships and defeat loneliness
Moira Petty For The Mail On Sunday
 00:11, 18 December 2022 
Over the past few weeks The Mail on Sunday has partnered with charity Age UK in an effort to beat loneliness by showcasing some of the best places to meet like-minded people.
We have highlighted just a few of the countless groups catering for just about every taste and interest – from drumming circles and knitting clubs to life-drawing classes and speed-dating.
Given that scientific studies show that loneliness can be as bad for your health as smoking or obesity, there’s never been a better time to take the plunge. So here are just a few more activities to get you up and out and making new friends, from Viking-inspired meet-ups to literary lectures.
Try life as a Viking – pitch battles included
Vikings of Middle England is a history group with a focus on Anglo-Saxon and Viking cultures. Each week, attendees learn how to make clothes and food and re-enact – safely – brutal battles.
The group meets on Wednesday evenings at the Social Centre at Braunstone, near Leicester. In the summer, they put on theatrical renditions of battles at historic locations such as Rockingham Castle in Northamptonshire.
Gentler members can wear the garments they’ve made, cook, and amble about as a Viking would.
Regular Alan Ball, 34, says: ‘We try to be as authentic as possible, camping in simple A-shaped tents. We eat stews and bread they would have made.’
Sessions cost just £3 to attend. Visit 
Vikings of Middle England is a history group with a focus on Anglo-Saxon and Viking cultures. Each week, attendees learn how to make clothes and food and re-enact – safely – brutal battles
The great 2022 Christmas Health Quiz: Which condition...
How a revolutionary operation now means that little Albie...
Follow in Jane Austin's inspirational footsteps 
Where Would Jane Go? is a group that visits stately homes they believe may have been frequented by Jane Austen or the characters in her novels.
Visits take place about once a month. The group has been to Lyveden New Bield in Northamptonshire for a production of Pride And Prejudice, set against the ruins of the Elizabethan building, and enjoyed a cream tea in the library at Castle Howard, York.
Annabelle Blackham, 49, from St Neott’s, Cambridgeshire, set up the group in 2015. ‘I’d taken a knock after coming out of a four- year relationship,’ she says. ‘I loved looking at architecture and wanted people to do it with – and I found kindred spirits.’
The group is free to join, with just the costs on the day to pay. Head to 
Where Would Jane Go? is a group that visits stately homes they believe may have been frequented by Jane Austen or the characters in her novels
A world of learning without boundaries
Manchester Literary And Philosophical Society, founded in 1781, presents lectures and discussions on diverse topics from science and politics to philosophy and art.
Venues vary within Manchester and upcoming events include a talk on biodiversity by Oxford Professor Simon Hiscock and geneticist Sir Paul Nurse.
People are encouraged to arrive early to mingle, and there is a Q&amp;A after the lecture.
Development manager Rachel Croft says the aim is to have charismatic speakers on stimulating subjects, adding: ‘It’s about being thought-provoking, but many members have made firm friends.’
Lectures cost £11 each for non-members. Members pay £10 a month and can attend all activities. Visit manlitphil.ac.uk.
Somewhere you can reach for the stars 
Brighton Astro is a group for astronomy enthusiasts, from amateur to expert. They meet to discuss space, swap knowledge, attend lectures from expert speakers and then go out to stargaze.
The group meets on the last Thursday of every month at Brighton’s Quaker Friends Meeting House.
Designer Phil McAllister, who co-founded the group in 2016, says: ‘We’re not astrophysicists. Our youngest member is ten and the oldest was 102. You don’t have to have a telescope – use ours and we’ll explain what you can see.’
Events are free to attend. Donations are welcome but voluntary. Visit brightonastro.com.
A place to share your big ideas
Bristol Entrepreneurs and Opportunity Seekers hold business events for anyone with an idea they want to get off the ground or who want to make connections with other enterprising types.
The group meets monthly in Bristol. There is a speaker – usually a local business leader – and time for members to mingle.
Organiser Ollie Collard, 35, says: ‘People of all ages attend. Young people might be better with technology while older people know other fundamentals, such as drawing up legal contracts.’
Events are free to attend. Email hello@enterpriseorchard.co.uk.
Join MoS army of phone friends 
The Mail on Sunday is backing Age UK’s drive to find 1,000 new volunteers for its Telephone Friendship Service – helping to end the loneliness felt by older people across the country.
Recruits undergo brief training before being matched with someone who would benefit from a 30-minute phone call each week.
Sign-ups have already surged by 73 per cent, but more are still needed.
Kerry, 42, has become firm friends with Kathleen, 70, whom she speaks to once a week.
She says: ‘We’ve become close, even though we have never met. This is the right thing to do. I feel proud to take part.’
● Now sign up by visiting
Viking Reenactment Events - Vikings of Middle England - Leicester, United Kingdom
Where would Jane go? Visit Country Houses and Stately Homes (Kimbolton, United Kingdom) | Meetup
Telephone friendship service | Age UK
Share or comment on this article: 
From stargazing to Viking battles - yet more ways to forge friendships and defeat loneliness
'I had a chance to save a life, I wanted to know it was successful': The heartwarming letters that started a...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Best time to have sex revealed (and it's probably NOT when you think!)&nbsp;
Washington man hospitalized after drinking canister of NOS octane which he mistook for an energy drink -...
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK...
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Urgent warning over vapes as shock investigation reveals gadgets puffed by kids can contain dangerous levels...
Tech mogul, 45, who spends $2m trying to de-age himself is injected with the BLOOD of his teenage son as...
Junior doctors to strike for three more days in June as union chiefs threaten to strike throughout summer...
More patient misery as the NHS loses 700 dentists despite claims from the government that reforms have...
Junk food and vaping adverts would be banned from airing before 9pm under Labour plans, despite suggestions...
The sound wave 'torpedos' that could cut your blood pressure&nbsp;
England's worst-performing hospitals REVEALED: Interactive map lays bare state of all 268 sites - including...
Forget a bubble bath or settling down with a good book... Sex three times a week can help to beat stress,...
Treat yourself to offers on make-up and accessories
Get the right equipment and sportswear for less
Save money on outlet and full-price orders
Holland and Barrett - Holland and Barrett promotions
Click through to find the latest voucher codes
Cult Beauty - Cult Beauty deals
Feel good with amazing savings with Cult Beauty
Allbeauty - Shop for branded make-up
Save money on your favourite brands this month
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
