The BBC treated her resignation as PM as a tragedy. But Jacinda Ardern was already on her way out | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
The liberal poster girl who couldn't live up to her own hype: The BBC treated her shock resignation as New Zealand Prime Minister as a global tragedy. But the truth is Jacinda Ardern was already on her way out
When she arrived as Prime Minister in 2017 Jacinda Ardern changed everything
Sharp, youthful, and full of snappy soundbites, she electrified the political scene
Her resignation has shocked the world, especially among Left-leaning liberals
Absent from the outpouring of grief was any understanding why she stood down
Voters face a cost-of-living crisis, spiralling crime rates and soaring inflation
She is almost certainly choosing to jump before the electorate give her a push
Guy Adams for the Daily Mail
 22:31, 19 January 2023 
 02:18, 20 January 2023 
’s very first speech as leader of New Zealand’s Labour Party began self-effacingly: ‘Everyone knows that I have just accepted, with short notice, the worst job in politics.’
It was August 1, 2017, eight weeks before a general election. 
 had been out of power for a decade, and her hapless predecessor, Andrew Little, had just thrown in the towel because the party was marooned at 24 per cent in the polls.
But Ardern’s now legendary press conference changed everything. Sharp, youthful, and full of snappy soundbites, she electrified the political scene in her small and remote country of five million people and 27 million sheep.
Poll ratings doubled almost overnight. On 
, where her following grew to half of New Zealand’s entire population, ‘Jacindamania’ began to trend. By election day, the contest was all but over. And remarkably, at 37, she was made the world’s youngest ever female leader when she became prime minister. Yesterday, Ardern called a very different press conference. This time, she wore black and at times seemed on the verge of tears as 
: ‘I know what this job takes and I know that I no longer have enough in the tank to do it justice. It is that simple.’
Jacinda Ardern takes a selfie with students at Northcote College in Auckland, New Zealand, in July 2020
The New Zealand Prime Minister hugs a woman at the Kilbirnie Mosque in March 2019, after mass shootings at two mosques
Jacinda Ardern shocks the world and RESIGNS as New Zealand...
Burn-out or cop-out? Jacinda Ardern says she 'doesn't have...
Watched by her fiance and 
, a TV fishing show presenter, she announced that instead of fighting a forthcoming election, the couple intended to spend more time with Neve, the daughter Ardern gave birth to during the early months of her ‘reign’.
They may also get round to holding the wedding that was originally scheduled for last January but fell victim to the onerous Covid restrictions that, for much of the pandemic, turned the country into a hermit kingdom, trapping thousands of unfortunate citizens overseas.
The news of Arden’s resignation caused shock around the world and especially among Left-leaning liberals. She was, after all, their hero —
 of Time magazine, Vogue (which called her ‘the anti-Trump’), the Financial Times (‘Saint Jacinda, a leader for our troubled times’) and Germany’s influential Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper which once proclaimed her ‘the future of liberal democracy’.
Coverage of her decision to quit as leader was funereal on the BBC, with the Today programme yesterday broadcasting a staggeringly one-sided political obituary which waxed lyrical about her ‘kindness and compassion’.
On social media, a bevy of BBC journalists rammed home the message: ‘An amazing woman with integrity and compassion’, went one, adding that ‘Jacinda showed the true strength of a strong woman in times of deep sorrow. We need more politicians like her.’ Another was equally gushing: ‘. . . such grace, strength and compassion. What a leader.’
Meanwhile a sometime Radio 4 host summed up the mood of our chattering class: ‘A huge round of applause for Jacinda Ardern. She has led with grace, humility &amp; compassion. She is honest &amp; sincere. A quality rarely seen amongst top-tier politicians. She has done New Zealand &amp; their citizens proud. Many could learn from her.’
Conspicuously absent from this global outpouring of Left-wing grief, however, was any proper understanding of the reasons behind her decision to step down.
Back in New Zealand, where this progressive superstar has never been quite so popular as she has overseas, voters are facing a cost-of-living crisis, spiralling crime rates and soaring inflation.
Housing is increasingly unaffordable and the economy is on the verge of a recession that, say critics, has been needlessly exacerbated by her hardline approach to the pandemic
For years, opposition politicians have attempted to portray Ardern as all style and no substance, arguing that while she may have a rare gift for crafting social media posts that go viral, she’s significantly less talented at the more important business of actually governing.
This critique has been hitting home: opinion polls have her personal popularity at its lowest since she was elected, and — with an election due in October — the Labour Party’s ratings are 33 per cent, almost as dismal as they were when she took the reins in 2017.
Put simply, she is almost certainly now choosing to jump before the electorate give her a push.
Ms Ardern looks sorrowful as she announces she will not contest the next General Election on Thursday 
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, right, with her fiancee Clark Gayford leave a press conference after announcing her resignation in Napier, New Zealand
Both Ardern’s personal strengths and her political limitations were highlighted by the appalling tragedy that struck her country in early 2019, when a far-Right gunman strode into two mosques in the New Zealand city of Christchurch and opened fire, killing 51 people. In the immediate aftermath, her reaction of deep sympathy and pragmatism won over her people. She came across as the woman who could unite a deeply shocked nation scarred with sorrow.
The image of her wearing a headscarf to show solidarity with the stricken families of Muslim victims was shared around the world, at one point being projected 200 metres high on the tallest building on the planet, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai.
But then came a major political blunder. To tackle the blight of terrorism, Ardern banned guns she deemed too dangerous for anyone to have — military-type semi-automatic weapons — and launched a series of ‘buy-backs’ and amnesties in an effort to take large numbers of existing firearms off the streets.
But rather than removing weapons from circulation, the policy resulted in three-quarters of the most dangerous guns simply disappearing from legal ownership.
The result? Violent firearms offences have increased by around 20 per cent since the amnesty and crime has spiralled. New Zealand is now a more dangerous place thanks to her efforts to make it safer.
Then there is her approach to Covid. Initially, the world bought into the myth that her government was a top performer in eliminating the disease.
The truth, of course, is that it’s relatively simple to quarantine remote islands. And having introduced a strategy of isolation and hard lockdown at the start of the pandemic, Ardern clung to a zero-Covid policy that was way beyond the edge of reason.
Her government shut down businesses, closed entire towns if a small outbreak of the virus occurred, and forced New Zealand citizens who happened to be abroad when the pandemic struck to apply to enter their own country, with only a tiny number of places available via an online lottery system.
At first, the policy was popular, with Ardern using Facebook Live sessions to communicate with the nation in a crumpled jumper, after putting her daughter to bed, in a manner that struck a chord with the public. Indeed, in the 2020 election, her party polled almost 50 per cent.
Yet, as time went on, opposition to this sometimes cruel policy (for which exemptions were only available for celebrities and the ultra-wealthy) grew, with critics lambasting a sluggish vaccine rollout and pointing out that the only world leader more bloody-minded in holding on to a strategy of eliminating Covid at all costs was communist China’s president Xi Jinping.
The crescendo of division and unrest saw huge demonstrations outside parliament.
Critics of the policy such as David Seymour, leader of the opposition party ACT New Zealand, argue that the legacy of this Covid crackdown has been lawlessness, disastrous school attendance, out-of-control inflation, spiralling government debt and the lowest business confidence since records began 50 years ago. And after six years, there are also signs that Ardern’s sometimes sanctimonious tone and obsession with woke causes is beginning to grate.
One of her most common refrains, when announcing a new policy, is that ‘it’s the right thing to do’, a phrase repeatedly wheeled out when unveiling efforts to combat climate change, which she has dubbed ‘my generation’s nuclear-free moment’, in homage to the 1980s Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.
Yet for all the talk, and despite a raft of expensive policies, emissions have not reduced during her time in office, and the fallout from the policies has often been disastrous.
Ms Ardern embraces her fiancé Clarke Gayford after announcing her resignation and declaring that they could finally get married
Police hold riot shields as demonstrators against Covid-19 vaccine mandates and restrictions gather outside of the New Zealand Parliament grounds in Wellington on March 2, 2022
When she banned oil and gas exploration, the only practical substitute was coal, which increased emissions.
Farmers, once the engine of New Zealand’s economy, found themselves threatened with bankruptcy by stringent and bureaucratic carbon-reduction policies.
Despite being a dyed-in-the-wool liberal, Ardern actually hails from a relatively conservative background. Raised in a rural part of New Zealand’s North Island, her father, Ross, was a police chief-turned-diplomat, and her family were devout Mormons, meaning that she grew up dressing modestly, and avoiding caffeine, alcohol and boys.
She didn’t break from the church until her mid-20s, when she found herself house-sharing with three gay friends and became frustrated with its position on gay rights.
Her first foray into politics had come at high school, where she launched a campaign for girls to be allowed to wear trousers.
She subsequently became a Labour activist and, after leaving university, worked on the advisory team of prime minister Helen Clark, who became her political mentor.
Following a stint volunteering in a New York soup kitchen, she spent a few months in Britain, first in Tony Blair’s Cabinet Office and then on secondment to the Home Office, where she worked on a review of policing in Britain and Wales. In early 2008, she was elected president of the International Union of Socialist Youth and the following year entered New Zealand’s parliament as its youngest Labour MP.
Aged just 28, she swiftly became a near-constant presence on TV and radio, with a gift for self-promotion that saw her elevated to the shadow cabinet by 2011.
An early sign of her star quality came via a Facebook post that same year, when the North Island, usually subtropical, experienced freak snowstorms that paralysed half the country. Ardern described, in her heartfelt, simple language, how she had rented a car and driven four stranded strangers the length of North Island to their destination. The post quickly went viral.
In September 2018, she took a trip to New York to deliver a speech to the UN.
The visit cemented her status as a sort of global celebrity, taking in appearances on The Today Show, The Late Show with Stephen Colbert — a programme on which Prince Harry was knocking back tequilas earlier this month as he trashed the Royal Family — and an interview with CNN’s top-flight journalist Christiane Amanpour.
She also exchanged tweets with the singer Rihanna about the importance of investing in education. The level of public interest was quite something for the leader of a country with fewer than five million citizens.
To the delight of Left-leaning Americans, she later picked a public fight with Donald Trump, a man she’d once described as a ‘professional a***hole’.
When they were first introduced at a gala dinner in Vietnam, the U.S. president told a bystander: ‘This lady caused a lot of upset in her country.’ Ardern, who had photographed herself at a protest on the day he was elected, responded: ‘No one marched when I was elected.’
Given the protests against her government that erupted last year, the remark now smacks of hubris. But then, Jacinda Ardern’s record in office has never come near to matching her lofty rhetoric.
Share or comment on this article: 
The BBC treated her resignation as PM as a tragedy. But Jacinda Ardern was already on her way out
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
