Jacinda Ardern's pick Chris Hipkins endorsed as next New Zealand prime minister | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Youthful photo of Jacinda Ardern and her successor Chris Hipkins 16 years ago emerges as she hands over power three days after shocking the world by quitting as New Zealand prime minister
Chris Hipkins to take over as New Zealand's prime minister 
Follows shock resignation of Jacinda Ardern as 
Old photo emerges of Ms Ardern and Mr Hipkins in London 
David Southwell For Daily Mail Australia
 03:42, 22 January 2023 
 08:31, 22 January 2023 
As New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Adern hands over the reins of power to new Labour leader Chris Hipkins an old photo shows the historical bond between the pair runs very deep and halfway across the globe.
A photo has emerged of a youthful Ms Adern and Mr Hipkins beaming at the camera in 
Greg O'Beirne, who is Professor of Audiology at New Zealand's University of Canterbury, dug up the old shot and posted it on 
 a day before Mr Hipkins took over as leader of the ruling 
Chris Hipkins (pictured right) is set to take over as New Zealand prime minister from Jacinda Adern (pictured left) following his endorsement as Labour leader on Sunday
'16 years ago, two future New Zealand Prime Ministers hanging out in Hyde Park, London,' the professor tweeted.
He also informed Twitter users the original caption read: 'Former Wellingtonians Jacinda and Chris – the NZ Memorial ceremony seemed to have left them in excellent spirits'.
The pair had attended the unveiling of the New Zealand Memorial in London's Hyde Park on Remembrance Day 2006. 
After being appointed Labour leader on Sunday, Mr Hipkins said he will focus on the country's cost of living and housing crises. 
M Adern and Mr Hipkins pictured in London's Hyde Park after attending the unveiling of the New Zealand Memorial in 2006
Chris Hipkins, who was the unanimous pick of the ruling party's Labour MPs for the top job, will be officially sworn in as prime minister on Wednesday following the shock shock resignation of Jacinda Ardern.
Mr Hipkins, who has an electoral mountain to climb with Labour trailing in the polls ahead of the October 14 election, said his government would bring 'clarity' to the problems confronting New Zealand. 
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern (left) and new Labour leader Chris Hipkins (right) enter Wellington's Parliament house before the party's MPs unanimously endorsed the change
Although Mr Hipkins said New Zealand was doing well economically compared to other countries in the post-Covid period he acknowledged run-away prices and a housing shortage are burning issues.
'Many people are hurting right now and I want them to know we are on their side,' he said. 
Whereas Ms Adern was known for her more focus on progressive social justice concerns, which led to New Zealand adopting a 'Wellbeing Budget', Mr Hipkins said he would zero in on the 'bread and butter issues'.
A top priority would be the chronic housing shortage and high property prices. 
'You shouldn't have to be on a six-figure salary to buy a new house,' Mr Hipkins said.
As he steps up from being minister for police Mr Hipkins also promised to tackle the concerns about crime. 
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and new Labour leader Chris Hipkins hug in front the press before Mr Hipkins was installed as the new party leader
He also indicated the government would look at paring back what it was doing and indicated some programs were going to be cut. 
'I know that some New Zealanders feel we are doing too much too fast and I have heard that message,' he said.
Mr Hipkins paid tribute to Ms Ardern, calling her one of New Zealand's great prime ministers
'Jacinda's leadership has been an inspiration to women and girls everywhere,' he said.
New Kiwi PM says it's about time the country had 'a ginger...
Jacinda Ardern shuts down theories that misogyny and attacks...
Mr Hipkins said the formal changeover of national leader would happen on Wednesday, when Ms Ardern would perform her last duties as prime minister before he is sworn into the job. 
Earlier Mr Hipkins told reporters he was 'humbled and honoured' to be nominated by his colleagues. 
Ms Adern gave her stamp of approval. 
'To see the caucus be absolutely united in their support for what will be a fantastic prime minister, I am absolutely delighted,' she said in endorsing Mr Hipkins.
The self-declared 'ginger' because of his strawberry blond hair has handed a daunting electoral task with Labour consistently trailing the opposition National party in polls, with one in December putting the gap at five per cent.
Ms Ardern (pictured right with partner Clarke Gayford after her resignation speech) endorsed Mr Hipkins as her successor
A major issue for Mr Hipkins to face will be the country's surging inflation, which sits at 7.2 per cent far outstripping wages growth. 
Mr Hipkins who is known for quick and sometime self-depreciating wit will likely set a different tone from Ms Ardern's brand of 'compassion' politics. 
He has a more combative style than Ms Adern, although sometimes his enthusiasm for point-scoring that has led to him overstepping the mark.
His most notable episode for Australians came in 2017, when he used parliament to dig for information on the dual citizenship status of Barnaby Joyce, drawing censures from then-Australian foreign minister Julie Bishop and Ms Ardern in a rare trans-Tasman spat.
Despite this Mr Hipkins was quickly seen by Labour MPs as their best choice to follow Ms Ardern, especially given Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson's decision to rule himself out of contention.
Mr Hipkins also made jokes about the colour of his hair and said it was about time the country had 'a ginger on top' in his first press conference as Jacinda Ardern's successor
The 44-hour process did not allow grassroots Labour members or the Kiwi public a say in picking the prime minister.
Both Mr Hipkins and Ms Ardern argued that was crucial to allow stability for the government. 
In what could be seen a typically Kiwi quirky side Mr Hipkins is known for his enjoyment of sausage rolls and even had a birthday cake made entirely of the pastries.
As interim health minister Mr Hipkins became a prominent face alongside Ms Ardern during the Covid pandemic, where a harsh border policy managed to keep the virus out of the country for a long period of time.
The restrictions polarised Kiwi society and led to a protest movement that was put down with hardline police tactics. 
Mr Hipkins managed New Zealand's Covid-19 response at a time when many Kiwis protested the country's onerous restrictions
His reputation as a 'fixer' saw Mr Hipkins move to become police minister as concerns grow about New Zealand's growing crime problem.
One thing he shares in common with his Australian Labor counterpart Anthony Albanese is that both men often hark back to their humble grassroots working class childhoods.
As with Mr Albanese and the Sydney suburb of Marrickville, Mr Hipkins still represents the hard-scrabble area he grew up in, which is the Upper Hutt 
Who is Chris Hipkins, New Zealand's next prime minister? 
Chris Hipkins came to prominence as health and Covid-19 minister during New Zealand's response to the pandemic
Chris Hipkins was the sole nominee for the Labour leadership vacated by Jacinda Ardern and will become New Zealand's 41st prime minister.
* Born September 5, 1978 in Wellington
* Entered parliament in 2008, alongside Ms Ardern
* MP for Remutaka, in the Upper Hutt, the downtrodden northern suburbs of Wellington where he was raised
* Studied politics and criminology at Victoria University of Wellington, where he was student president
* Staffer to former prime minister Helen Clark
* Spent nine years in opposition, and upon winning government in 2017 was made education minister and Leader of the House by Ms Ardern
* Became health and COVID-19 minister in 2020, taking a prominent role through the pandemic
* Moved to police minister this year as concerns grew over law and order
* Known to Kiwis as a self-depreciating sausage roll enthusiast
* Married wife Jade at the prime minister's official residence in 2020, with finance minister Grant Robertson as his best man
* Has two children, a six-year-old son a four-year-old daughter
                                                                                                               
Share or comment on this article: 
Jacinda Ardern's pick Chris Hipkins endorsed as next New Zealand prime minister
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
