Prince Harry promotes explosive autobiography Spare in 'revealing' interview | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
CCTV 'shows police van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after force disputed claims that the death of two teenagers in 'chase' was to blame
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his Berkshire home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil: How reclusive paedophile battled neck cancer and was fed through a tube at his £5m home after shameful fall from grace
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey is slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as he clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial tells how his life was 'destroyed' and demands answers over why it took so long for justice - as real killer is jailed for 29 years
From giant letters H and S to the curious 'ERP': The hundreds of fading signs dating back to WWII that exist around Britain - but do YOU know what they mean?
Duchess of Edinburgh has made a secret trip to Iraq, Palace reveals, where she visited a girls school and had an audience with the President
Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes she was 'thrown under the bus' by producers who wanted her to look like the 'nasty judge'
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Rishi Sunak denies 'dithering' over Suella Braverman's fate as Home Secretary STILL waits to hear if she will face sleaze probe on 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Four arrested in connection with the hanging of an effigy of Vinicius Jnr from a bridge in January... with the Real Madrid star having again been subjected to racist attacks
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with a didgeridoo in images taken just months before his death
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as cause of death is revealed
Chilling moment paedophile Rolf Harris warned children about 'touching' and 'yes feelings and no feelings' in 'Kids Can Say No' sex abuse educational video filmed during period of his offending in 1980s
Prince Harry once again accuses the royals of 'planting stories' about him and Meghan in latest blistering attack against his family as he sits down for 'revealing' interview with Anderson Cooper to plug explosive book Spare
Harry discussed upcoming memoir with Anderson Cooper on CBSs' 60 Minutes
The US broadcaster today released a short trailer for the interview on Sunday
In the clip, Harry, 38, slammed the royals for 'leaking stories' about the Sussexes
He claimed that he and Meghan were 'betrayed' by the Palace 
Spare expected to give details about disagreements between Harry and William
Caroline Graham for The Mail on Sunday
 08:34, 2 January 2023 
 15:39, 2 January 2023 
Prince Harry has once again accused the palace of 'betraying' him and wife Meghan Markle by 'planting stories' about them in the press, as he sat down for a 'revealing' interview with TV anchor Anderson Cooper to plug his explosive memoir Spare.  
The Duke of Sussex, 38, doubled down on the damaging allegations made against his family during the 
 in a new sit-down with CBS News' 60 Minutes, which will air in full just two days before his book is released on January 10. 
In a short teaser trailer for the interview, Harry defends himself and his wife against public criticism of their decision to publicly blast the royal family - insisting that he has 'tried to do this privately' but that 'every single time I've tried to do it privately, there have been briefings and leakings and planting of stories against me and my wife'.
He continued: 'You know, the family motto is "never complain, never explain", but it's just a motto and it doesn't really hold...'
Prince Harry has once again accused the royal family of 'planting' and 'leaking stories' about himself and Meghan Markle during a primetime interview with CBS News' 60 Minutes
The interview - which is part of a publicity blitz for his upcoming memoir Spare - will air in full on January 8, however the network released a teaser trailer today 
 he was the target of press leaks after private conversations with members of the Royal Family. 
Harry and William's relationship 'hangs by a thread'...
Harry and William 'will NEVER reconcile after his book':...
Who is Anderson Cooper? Son of Vanderbilt heiress with a tragic family history  
As a CNN anchor and host of CBS's 60 Minutes, Anderson Cooper, 55, is one of America's most prominent broadcast journalists.
As well as co-anchoring the 2016 presidential debates he's carried out sit-down interviews with some of the world's most prominent politicians, from Joe Biden to Emmanuel Macron. 
Cooper pictured with his mother, Gloria Vanderbilt, and brother, Carter in 1976
Despite an estimated net worth of $200million, Mr Cooper only inherited around $1.5m from his late mother's estate after she spent most of her fortune while she was alive.
He's previously vowed to take a similar approach with his son, Wyatt, due to a 
that it is wrong to pass on large amounts of money.  
Cooper regularly campaigns on mental health issues and has spoken openly about losing his brother Carter to suicide. 
In 2020 Mr Cooper interviewed Afua Hirsch, the British author and former Guardian journalist who features in the Sussexes' Netflix programme, and who made a damning verdict on the Commonwealth as 'Empire 2.0'.
He also joked about getting a wave from Prince Harry during his wedding to Meghan in May 2018. He told viewers: 'I was at the Royal Wedding, covering it for CNN. 
When asked by Cooper whether there had been 'a lot of complaining and a lot of explaining through leaks,' Harry claimed: 'Through leaks. They will feed or have a conversation with the correspondent and that correspondent will literally be spoon fed information and write the story. 
'And at the bottom of it, they will say that they've reached out to Buckingham Palace for comment. But the whole story is Buckingham Palace commenting.'
Repeating the attacks he and Meghan made against the royals in their recent Netflix docuseries, the Duke said the couple has been 'betrayed' repeatedly by his family, telling Cooper: 'When we're being told for the last six years, "We can't put a statement out to protect you," but you do it for other members of the family, there comes a point where silence is betrayal.'
His sensational claims about the palace 'leaking' stories come after he made similar allegations about the monarchy during the Sussexes' bombshell Netflix docuseries. 
In the six-episode series, Harry and Meghan, 41, made several incendiary claims about the royals, including that the palace 'lied to protect [William]' but 'were never willing to tell the truth to protect us'. 
Meghan then added: 'I wasn't being thrown to the wolves. I was being fed to the wolves.'
The new teaser for Harry's 60 Minutes interview comes less than one week before it is set to air in full as part of a publicity blitz for his explosive autobiography. 
An earlier trailer for the 'revealing' sit-down did not feature Harry speaking, however at one point the Prince was seen with a plaintive expression while gesticulating to emphasize a point.
This comes after the duke claimed in his Netflix documentary that William broke a promise to him never to leak stories or brief against one another after witnessing the fallout of such actions in their father's office. 
Mr Bradby, a former royal correspondent for ITV, is a friend of the Sussexes and previously interviewed them for a documentary about their 2019 Africa tour. 
Meanwhile, Anderson Cooper is said to have won Harry's trust through his stance on issues close to his heart like mental health.  
The 55-year-old, who is also a star of the CNN network, has campaigned to promote better mental health and hosts a podcast called All There Is. He has spoken about losing his brother Carter to suicide. 
The 23-year-old fell to his death from the family's 14th-floor Manhattan apartment in 1988. Mr Cooper also has war experience, having reported from Afghanistan, where Harry completed two tours of duty.
Harry discussed his upcoming memoir, Spare, during a conversation with Anderson Cooper 
Harry with Cooper in a trailer that was released by the American network this morning 
A television source said: 'Mr Cooper has won Harry's trust. This would be a coup for Mr Cooper and fits well with Harry's campaign to promote mental health. 
'It is a prime-time Sunday show which hosts foreign leaders and presidents. It's the one that all the politicians and decision-makers watch.' 
Recently 60 Minutes featured exclusive interviews with US President Joe Biden and French President Emmanuel Macron.
In 2020 Mr Cooper interviewed Afua Hirsch, the British author and former Guardian journalist who features in the Sussexes' Netflix program, and who made a damning verdict on the Commonwealth as 'Empire 2.0'.
In the discussion with Mr Cooper after Harry and Meghan announced they were leaving their Royal duties, Ms Hirsch described the Royal Family as 'Ground Zero for Britain's troubled history of colonialism and race'.
She added that she was 'always concerned about Meghan Markle's wellbeing' when joining the Royal family. Appearing sympathetic to the couple's plight, Mr Cooper told Ms Hirsch: 'The notion of being hounded by the press is going to have such strange, weird echoes for Prince Harry given what happened to his mom.'
Mr Cooper has also joked about getting a wave from Prince Harry during his wedding to Meghan in May 2018. He told viewers: 'I was at the Royal Wedding, covering it for CNN.
'Our correspondent Max Foster said, 'You should wave at Harry because Harry is going to look up at the bright lights and I bet he'll wave at you.' The carriage makes a turn. I start waving. Harry looks up at the tower, we make eye contact and he waves. I almost died.'
Harry is not heard speaking in the trailer for the interview, which is said to be 'revealing' 
Spare is expected to give details about disagreements between Harry, 38, and his brother the Prince of Wales, 40  
Harry's upcoming autobiography is said to be so cutting of his brother William that the pair may not be able to reconcile their differences following its release on January 10.Spare will reportedly see 
But it is so tough on the Prince of Wales that insiders fear the 
, which has been strained considerably since Harry and 
 announced they were relinquishing their royal duties, will not recover. 
: 'Generally, I think the book [will be] worse for them than the Royal Family is expecting.
'Everything is laid bare. Charles comes out of it better than it had expected, but it's tough on William, in particular, and even Kate gets a bit of a broadside. 
'There are these minute details, and a description of the fight between the brothers. I personally can't see how Harry and William will be able to reconcile after this.'  
Harry's tell-all tale was written with JR Moehringer, a Pulitzer prize-winning journalist who previously penned the biography of US tennis star Andre Agassi. 
The Duke of Sussex will personally narrate the audiobook version of the memoir and will donate some of the work's proceeds to charity. 
The book will be published just weeks after he and his wife Meghan released 
 series detailing their relationship and split from the royal family
, while reports have emerged that Meghan is also planning to publish her own bombshell memoir.
According to one source, the 
 'is contemplating getting entirely candid about her time in the Royal limelight… and leaving no stone unturned'.
In 2021 the couple reportedly signed a four-book deal with publishers Penguin Random House. 
Prince Harry's book, Spare, is due to be released on Tuesday, January 10
Prince Harry's highly anticipated memoir will be entitled 'Spare' and is set to be released on January 10, publisher Penguin Random House confirmed
Prince Harry is said to have received a $20 million advance for Spare. 
Meghan has already released her children's book The Bench with the same publisher, and it is rumored that the couple are working on a 'wellness' book. 
Now it is believed the mystery fourth book will be Meghan's autobiography. 
A bestselling memoir would put Meghan in a well-trodden American political tradition, amid much speculation that she may have ambitions for elected office, given her outspoken views on women's rights and other issues. 
A Hollywood agent told The Mail on Sunday: 'I would find it surprising if Meghan didn't publish her own story, to be honest. Spare is clearly Prince Harry's chance to tell his, but hers is equally compelling. I mean, how many actresses end up marrying a Prince?'
The source added: 'If she's harboring political ambitions it would make even more sense,' pointing out that Presidents Clinton, Obama and Trump all wrote books setting out their beliefs before launching bids for the White House.
The Duchess, a Democrat, has become close to America's 'political royalty', the Kennedy family, and was honored last month alongside her husband with an award from the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights non-profit organization. 
The Duchess of Sussex, pictured with her husband, is planning to write her own autobiography which will leave 'no stone unturned' about life as a royal according to sources in Hollywood
A bestselling memoir would put Meghan in a well-trodden American political tradition, amid much speculation that she may have ambitions for elected office, given her outspoken views on women's rights and other issues
The organization's leader Kerry Kennedy – niece of former US president John F. Kennedy – said the Sussexes received the award for their stand against 'structural racism' within the Royal Family.
Meghan is also good friends with feminist icon Gloria Steinem who is still closely involved in liberal politics. A friend of Ms Steinem's said: 'Meghan has strong views very much in alignment with Gloria's in terms of social justice and women's rights. Gloria is encouraging her to make her voice heard.'
But some have warned that the Sussexes may be in danger of overexposure. 
One senior Hollywood executive said: 'We've had the Oprah Winfrey interview, then the Netflix series and now we've got Harry's book. You have to ask if the world really needs to hear Meghan's story right now? If I was advising her I would caution against releasing a book too quickly because there is a very real danger that people will start experiencing 'Sussex fatigue'.
'There comes a point where people might feel they've heard the same stories too many times. They have to change the narrative at some stage and focus on the future rather than past transgressions.'
Meanwhile, Harry's book has been billed as being written with 'raw, unflinching honesty'. 
A Hollywood agent told The Mail on Sunday: 'I would find it surprising if Meghan didn't publish her own story, to be honest. Spare is clearly Prince Harry's chance to tell his, but hers is equally compelling. I mean, how many actresses end up marrying a prince?'
The agent added: 'If she's harboring political ambitions it would make even more sense,' the source added, pointing out that Presidents Clinton, Obama and Trump all wrote books setting out their beliefs before launching White House bids'
Harry and William's relationship 'hangs by a thread'...
Harry and William 'will NEVER reconcile after his book':...
Anderson Cooper won't leave son an inheritance
Share or comment on this article: 
Prince Harry promotes explosive autobiography Spare in 'revealing' interview
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
