Anthony Albanese's changes to Australia in 2023 | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
How Anthony Albanese will shape Australia: PM's popularity allows him to push ahead with his new corruption body, cut carbon emissions and keep tax cuts for the rich... but will his promise to cut $275 from power bills come back to bite him?
Anthony Albanese ended 2022 on a high after fulfilling most election promises
He raised wages, passed a federal ICAC, invested in TAFE and cheaper child care
The PM has faced criticism over the cost of living crisis and power bills pledge
The govt will start 2023 in a strong position with looming economic challenges 
Jesse Hyland For Daily Mail Australia
 05:38, 23 December 2022 
 05:47, 25 December 2022 
 can hold his head high after hitting the ground running since winning the election in May. 
In just seven months, his government has raised wages, passed laws to establish a federal an anti-corruption commission, set up a fund to protect communities against natural disasters, and committed to an Indigenous Voice to Parliament.  
Australia's 31st Prime Minister has also invested in TAFE, legislated for cheaper child care, and committed to cutting carbon emissions by 43 per cent below 2005 levels by 2030. 
While plans set up before the election have been ticked off, there have also been more controversial decisions and promises that may not be met - particularly his pledge to cut the cost of electricity by $275 by 2025.
However, while his power pledge will undoubtedly dog his term as prime minister, his popularity is still high enough to allow him to push forward with major reforms for 2023. 
Anthony Albanese's pre-Christmas press conference in Sydney on Friday (above) 
A federal independent commission against corruption 
One of Anthony Albanese's biggest election promises was to establish a federal anti-corruption commission.
The commission will be an independent body that will investigate corruption in national politics. The body will be transparent and open to referrals from the public and whistleblowers.
A federal ICAC has been long called for as the public's trust in politicians has deteriorated.
The Prime Minister promised by the end of the year to pass legislation to establish an anti-corruption watchdog. 
He has fulfilled this promise, with legislation for a federal ICAC passing by the senate with some amendments in November. 
The anti-corruption commission will be established by mid-2023.
Greens senators celebrate after the National Anti-Corruption Commission Bill was passed
The Albanese government passed a Climate Change Bill in August that will enshrine into law a 43 per cent reduction in emissions from 2005 levels by 2030 and net zero emissions by 2050.
The passage of the legislation came just days after Mr Albanese refused to temporarily ban fossil fuel projects due to the importance of exports to the Australian economy, despite pressure from the Greens.
The prime minister has made a push for a transition to renewables, pumping billions into renewable energy projects and low-emission technologies. 
He has faced fierce criticism over soaring energy prices after making an election pledge to reduce power bills by $275 by 2025. 
This pledge came on the basis that a transition is made to renewables. 
However, Mr Albanese has been consistently slammed over the matter by the opposition as energy costs continue to fuel inflation in Australia.
There have also been fears that renewables will contribute to an increase in prices despite claims there will be a reduction in costs if Australia utilises cheaper renewable energy.
Power bills have risen by more than 50 per cent due to a combination of local and international factors including the cost of ageing coal generators in Australia and Russia's war with Ukraine. 
The government passed an Energy Price Relief Plan in December which will temporarily cap coal and gas prices and deliver $1.5 billion in energy bill relief for low-income households. 
 The Albanese government passed a Climate Change Bill that will enshrine into law a 43 per cent reduction in emissions from 2005 levels by 2030 and net zero emissions by 2050 (pictured, power station Eraring near Newcastle) near Newcastle)
The minimum wage was raised by 5.2 per cent from July 1 following another pledge from Mr Albanese leading up to the election.
The government put in a submission calling on the Fair Work Commission to match the rising inflation so real wages after inflation didn't go backwards.
The increase has given Australia's lowest-paid workers an extra $40 a week. 
Breaking that down, it equates to the $21.38 an hour rate increasing by $1.05 or a weekly wage of $772.60 rising to $812.60.
The increase was above the 5.1 per cent inflation rate at the time and was the most generous since 2006 during the mining boom. 
It has directly affected 180,000 workers.
There were complaints from employers and employer groups that the government's decision to increase the minimum wage would increase costs for businesses and exacerbate rising inflation.
Economists claim the latter complaint is overblown as wages have already been lagging behind inflation and an increase would make a trivial difference.
The government's industrial relations bill also outlines consideration for wage increases for women and those in female-dominated industries. 
The minimum wage was raises by 5.2 per cent from July 1 which has given the country's lowest-paid workers an extra $40 a week (stock image)
The government is providing 480,000 fee-free TAFE and community vocational education places over the next four years.
There will be 180,000 fee-free spots available in 2023.
Mr Albanese has also pledged $50million towards technology upgrades at institutions and will help fund support services for students who are thinking about leaving their course.
The prime minister has made several overseas visits over the course of the year to strengthen international relations and, in specific cases, repair relationships. 
He flew to Tokyo, Japan, only two days after being elected for the Quad leaders meeting where he met US President Joe Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
In June, he jetted off to Indonesia to meet with Indonesia president Joko Widodo, he stopped over at the UAE to see Australian defence force troops and attended the NATO leader summit in Madrid, Spain.
He travelled to Paris in July and saw French president Emmanuel Macron. Relations between both countries worsened after the Morrison government tore up a submarine contract with France.
The prime minister then travelled to Ukraine after he was invited by president Volodymyr Zelenskyy. He is the first Australian prime minister in history to visit the nation.
Anthony Albanese met with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier this year. He became the first Australian prime minister in history to visit the nation
Mr Albanese was shown parts of the war torn country amidst Russia's invasion and pledged further military aid.
There were visits to Fiji, the UK, Cambodia and Thailand over the course of the year for international meetings with world leaders.
The prime minister met with Chinese president Xi Jinping at the G20 summit in Bali, Indonesia. It was the first time president Xi had met with an Australian prime minister since Malcom Turnbull in 2016. 
Relations between both nations had soured in recent years and came to a peak when the Morrison government pushed for an inquiry into the origins of Covid-19. 
Mr Albanese met with Chinese president Xi Jinping at the G20 summit in Bali. It's the first time an Australian prime minster has met with a Chinese president since 2016
Anthony Albanese announced after he was elected that a referendum for an Indigenous Voice to Parliament would be held.
The Voice would act as an advisory group comprised of elected Aboriginal and Torres Straight Islander people who will counsel the government on national issues affecting First Nations people.
Mr Albanese revealed that Australians would be asked for the referendum question if they support an Indigenous Voice in the constitution during a speech at the Garma Festival in the Northern Territory back in July. 
The drafted question is: 'Do you support an alteration to the constitution that establishes an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Voice?' 
The government would recommend three sentences be added to the Constitution if the public votes for a Voice, with the first reading: 'There shall be a body, to be called the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Voice.' 
The prime minister revealed what Australians would be asked for the referendum question for an Indigenous Voice to parliament during a speech at the Garma Festival in the Northern Territory back in July
While there has been a strong show of support for the proposal, there has also been significant criticism, especially within parliament from the Liberals, Nationals and One Nation.
The Coalition remain divided on the issue. Former Liberal prime ministers John Howard and Tony Abbott along with Nationals leader David LittleProud, former Nationals leader Barnaby Joyce and One Nation leader Pauline Hanson have openly expressed opposition to the proposal.
Aboriginal senators Jacinta Price and Warren Mundine have also been staunch opponents.  
The main criticism has been that the Voice would be 'race-based' and divide the population by race, while others argue the government has not provided enough information on how it would operate.  
Mr Albanese confirmed that the referendum will be held in the 2023 to 2024 financial year.
Mr Albanese has indicated this model would form the basis of the Voice's design and be refined as the debate evolved
Anthony Albanese came under fire for cutting in half the number of taxpayer-subsidised psychologist sessions.
Health minister Mark Butler announced that free psychologist or allied mental health sessions through the Better Access program would be returned to 10 in a matter of weeks after temporarily being 20. 
Australians were able to claim 10 free psychologist sessions on Medicare before the pandemic, and Better Access temporarily increased this number to 20 sessions in August 2020.
The health minister said the sessions had been cut after an evaluation from the University of Melbourne found the extra subsidised sessions had boosted demand from some sectors of the community which created long waiting times for others.
The Albanese government came under fire after cutting in half the number of taxpayer-subsidised psychologist sessions for patients (pictured, federal health minister Mark Butler)
He claimed those from lower socioeconomic and rural areas as well as aged-care residents were missing out on sessions compared to better off patients in cities.
However, the ABC claimed the review of the program found that more than 10 sessions were needed for some patients with more acute mental health issues.
'The additional 10 sessions should continue to be made available and should be targeted towards those with complex mental health needs,' the review read.
It recommended that a review into a patient's needs could be conducted after 10 sessions, even if 20 sessions are provided through the program.
The Australian Psychological Society, representing members who experienced higher demand for services as a result of the 20 subsidised sessions, slammed the government's decision. 
 Australians were able to claim 10 psychologist sessions on Medicare pre-pandemic before Better Access increased this to 20 in August 2020 (stock image)
A Disaster Recovery Fund has been set up to build new flood levees, fire breaks and evacuation centres for communities across the country.
The fund was passed through parliament by the government last month.
This week the prime minister announced the federal government's intention to work with the NSW state government to provide financial support for the NSW communities that were hit hardest by this year's floods.
The money will go towards covering the rent of affected families, finding secure accommodation and cleaning up the damage left by the floods.
The Albanese government passed new child care laws through the House of Representatives this month that will provide cheaper child care for families.
From July next year, families earning less than $80,000 a week will be able to claim back 90 per cent of fees, which is an increase from the previous 85 per cent.
While households raking in more than $200,000 will receive a 66 per cent subsidy, up from 55 per cent.
The government estimates the scheme, which was another election promise from Mr Albanese, will help more than one million Australian families.  
 The Albanese government passed new child care laws that will provide cheaper child care for families
Anthony Albanese has made a promise to expand the national broadband network.
The latest budget revealed a plan to install full-fibre NBN access for more than 1.5 million Australian homes and businesses by 2025. 
Many of these premises' will be in outer suburb and regional areas across the country. 
The Albanese government has committed to funding the construction of one million new homes and more affordable and social housing.
They have put $350million towards delivering 10,000 new homes, a $10 billion Housing Australia Future Fund which will build 30,000 new social and affordable housing properties and created a council to advise government on housing supply and affordability.
The government has committed to one million new affordable homes and social housing (stock image)
Anthony Albanese will see his promises come to fruition in 2023 with the creation of the federal ICAC, fee-free TAFE placements and the referendum for the Voice. 
The anti-corruption commission will be established in mid-2023, while the referendum is expected to take place in the second half of next year. 
May 2023 will have the government deliver their next budget where they will make a decision about keeping the stage three tax cuts passed by the former Morrison government with the support of Labor in 2019.  
These cuts scrap the $120,000-to-$180,000 tax bracket, raises the top tax bracket from $180,000 to $200,000, and reduces the 32.5 per cent tax rate to 30 per cent for people earning between $45,000 and $200,000. 
The biggest hurdle for the government next year will be the cost of living crisis and looming economic challenges.
Inflation will continue to soar throughout 2023 as Australians struggle with the increasing costs of fuel, groceries and power. 
Despite ending the year on a high, the Albanese government will need to find ways to start tackling these challenges next year to ensure Australia's cost of living crisis doesn't spiral out of control. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Anthony Albanese's changes to Australia in 2023
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
