Defiant Gary Neville hits back at critics after his World Cup rant | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Rishi Sunak tells Gary Neville to stick to football as ITV pundit is reported to Ofcom for likening UK strikes to Qatar human rights abuses in furious World Cup rant - but Labour cheerleaders rush to defend him
Gary Neville used a discussion on ITV as a chance to attack the UK government
He said conditions for nurses were like those faced by Qatar's migrant workers
Former levelling-up secretary Simon Clarke said comparison was 'grotesque'
Neville refused to back down as ITV urged to drop him from future tournaments
Martin Robinson, Chief Reporter For Mailonline
Jason Groves for the Daily Mail
 10:02, 19 December 2022 
 14:57, 19 December 2022 
Rishi Sunak today told Gary Neville to stick to football because ITV viewers didn't tune in to the World Cup final to hear him lecture on politics  - as Ofcom considers an investigation after receiving complaints about the Labour supporting ex-footballer.
Neville triggered outrage yesterday when he used ITV's World Cup final coverage to liken the government's treatment of nurses to the Qatari regime's approach to migrant workers, many of whom died building the tournament's stadiums.
Neville, 47, claimed the conditions for striking nurses and railway workers in the UK were like those faced by Qatar's huge foreign labour force. Up to 6,500 migrant workers perished in the 11 years the Gulf state spent preparing for the World Cup.
But the Prime Minister today defended the Government's record. He said: 'I think when most people are tuning in to watch Gary Neville they want to hear about the football and watch the football. They don’t want to discuss politics.'
Gary Neville ranted about strikes and workers' conditions in the UK while appearing as a pundit on ITV before the World Cup final in Qatar
Shadow minister Louise Haigh was among those backing Gary Neville
Gary Neville responded to one critic with a sarcastic kiss and two laughing emojis
Re-live Argentina's entire World Cup win from Montiel's...
Argentina's World Cup winners party until daylight in Doha...
Sergio Aguero bizarrely calls France's Eduardo Camavinga a...
Congratulations and commiserations: WAGS of Argentina's...
The Clown Prince of Qatar: Eccentric Argentina goalie...
Fans slam 'embarrassing' World Cup final attendance after...
Giant-killers Morocco and two other teams DOMINATE...
ROBERT HARDMAN: Two talismen wearing Number 10... and a...
Argentina parties through the night: More than a MILLION...
Mr Sunak said he was 'proud' of his record of standing up for the NHS in government, including meeting the demand of the Royal College of Nursing to provide more training bursaries.
BBC pundit: Gary Neville was WRONG to bring his politics to the World Cup final 
Gary Neville was wrong to give his opinion on workers' rights during the World Cup final, according to a former colleague.
Asked if Neville should have expressed his political views, former England footballer Danny Mills told GB News: 'I don't think so.
'You have a platform as a pundit, as a person on telly, you clearly have opinions, but there are people better read, better versed to understand all the situations in this.
'We saw it at the start of the World Cup with the BBC not showing the opening ceremony on the main channel. And then a bit of a monologue from Gary Lineker.
'It's okay to have opinions, but if you want to do that, do it on your own social media channels because I think you have more influence.
'When you start getting into mixing politics right across the board, I think it's very, very dangerous.'
He added: 'I come from an NHS family, I spent my life working in my mum’s pharmacy growing up. My track record both as Chancellor and PM is prioritising the NHS. During Covid when there was a pay freeze in the rest of the public sector, the one area that got special treatment was the NHS. I did that as Chancellor.'
A No 10 spokesman also said today that 
's comparison of working conditions in the UK and 
The former Manchester United defender turned pundit, who has been a member of the Labour Party since January, has refused to apologise for what has been dubbed a 'party political broadcast' watched by a peak of 4.4million people on 
The Prime Minister's official spokesman said today: 'That's clearly not an appropriate or a legitimate comparison in any way.' 
Ofcom told MailOnline that it has received complaints from viewers.  A spokesman said: 'We are assessing the complaints against our broadcasting rules, but are yet to decide whether or not to investigate.'
ITV was criticised for failing to intervene during Neville's rant, in which he also said that British ministers were 'demonising' public sector staff. The broadcaster is now being urged to never employ him again. 
Last night ITV said it did not 'endorse' Neville's views as several Labour MPs defended him. Neville works for Sky, so is unlikely to appear on ITV again for some time. 
Neville refused to back down today, sharing a tweet about 'cold-heart Tories putting lives at risk' by not doing a strike deal with NHS staff. He even appeared to accuse one critic of drinking.
One viewer called him 'the absolute definition of champagne socialism' and said he could 'never wash off... all that sweet Qatar gold'. In response Neville sent two laughing emojis and a sarcastic kiss. 
Tory MP Lee Anderson called it a 'party political broadcast by a millionaire'. Neville responded on Twitter: 'I'm glad you're p***ed off! The biggest set of charlatans to ever be in power!'
He also declined to debate Mr Anderson on TV today – or to stand against him in his Ashfield constituency, adding: 'Hope he enjoys his last 18 months as an MP'.
Louise Haigh, Labour MP for Sheffield Heeley, appeared to defend Neville, tweeting sarcastically that ITV was 'the latest victim to (sic) woke cancel culture' after Mr Anderson said the channel was now on his 'banned' list. 
Qatar has been criticised over allegedly exploitative employment practices and for the number of deaths on construction projects. A Guardian investigation last year revealed that more than 6,500 people from India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka had died there since the World Cup was awarded in 2011.
Neville made his remarks in response to fellow pundit Roy Keane saying the World Cup had been stained by corruption.
'We should detest low pay, we should detest poor accommodation and working conditions,' Neville said.
'We can never accept that in this region or any other region – and it is just worth mentioning we've got a government in our country that are demonising rail workers, ambulance workers and, terrifyingly, nurses.
'We can't have people being paid an absolute pittance to work, we can't have people in accommodation that is unsavoury and disgusting.
'It shouldn't happen here [in Qatar] ... with the wealth that exists. But it shouldn't happen with the nurses in our country either where our nurses are having to fight for an extra pound or two pounds.'
The comments by the former England player sparked a storm online, with Tory MP and former levelling-up secretary Simon Clarke tweeting: 'It is beyond ridiculous that he is given free rein by ITV Sport to overtly politicise a major sporting event.
'Quite apart from the fact every nurse is receiving a pay rise of £1,400, to compare workers' rights in Qatar with the UK is grotesque.'
Neville's fellow pundit Roy Keane said that the 2022 World Cup in Qatar has been 'tainted'
Neville said the government had 'demonised rail and ambulance workers and, terrifyingly, nurses'
He claimed the conditions for striking nurses and railway workers were like those faced by Qatar's huge foreign labour force
Former Tory party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith said ITV should have cut off Neville. He added: 'People have been killed on building sites and things all over Qatar and paid a pittance, and he compares that to the UK? It's unbelievable.
'To compare a country that demonises gay rights, executes and brings in migrant workers by the truckload and pays them a pittance to a democratic country that has the concept of human rights, rule of law and all that goes with it – he's abused his position.'
Mr Anderson said: 'It's a classic case of another champagne socialist who's got more money than sense. ITV should sack him.'
Neville had already attracted controversy by agreeing to work for BeIN Sports – a network run by the Qatari state. This was despite him condemning the country's treatment of migrant workers in a documentary, entitled Countdown to Qatar, which aired ahead of the tournament.
It is not known how much Neville has earned from his deal with BeIN, but insiders estimated it could run into six figures.
Theresa May's former adviser attacked Gary Neville over his pre-match comments 
Nick Timothy, Theresa May's former chief of staff, said: 'Gary Neville – paid apologist for Qatar – used his ITV punditry berth to make a party political speech unchallenged and make offensive comparisons between Qatar and Britain on workers' rights.
'The hypocrisy is no surprise but the failure of ITV to pre-empt this is unacceptable.'
Neville responded by saying: 'Triggering all the right people.'
 during an appearance on Have I Got New For You, where he was grilled over his decision to attend the World Cup.
Neville, anchoring the news show for the first time, was backed into a corner to defend his 'reputation' as the topic of him accepting money from a Qatari broadcaster was brought up.
'You know David Beckham, don't you? He's going, isn't he? How much is he being paid?' panellist Paul Merton asked Neville.
'I don't know,' came Neville's sheepish reply. 'More than me!'
In a bid to try and take back control of the news agenda being debated on the show, Neville turned to Ian Hislop, a long-time panellist, and asked if 'it's coming home.'
'What, your reputation?' came the terse reply.
Hislop, editor of Private Eye, felt other panellists had been 'very gentle' with Neville as he ruthlessly went for the ex-footballer in search of answers as to why exactly he has accepted Qatari money.
'The elephant in the room is you're commentating there. What's the defence?' Hislop asked.
Ian Hislop (right) grilled Gary Neville (left) over his decision to work as a commentator for state-owned broadcaster beIN Sports during the World Cup in Qatar this month
There have been numerous protests from angry fans over human rights violations in Qatar
Qatar has been criticised for its treatment of workers during the construction of stadiums
'Well, you've got a choice, haven't you? My view always has been that you either highlight the issues and challenges in these countries and speak about them, or you basically don't say anything and stay back home and don't go. And I think we should challenge them.'
That defence did not wash with Hislop, who was eager to extract a legitimate argument for his work with beIN Sports.
 'The other option is you stay at home and highlight the abuses. You don't have to take the Qataris' money. It's just not a very good defence,' he said. 
Neville was left near-speechless as the live audience applauded.
'That's...' he said, before tailing off.
Neville's appearance on the show saw other topics surrounding the World Cup discussed, including members of the LGBTQ+ community being told they should 'flex and compromise' in Qatar by UK Foreign Secretary James Cleverly.
'It's unbelievable and it's all about money and you've got mainline celebrities going over there for huge cheques,' presenter Richard Madeley said, unfazed by Neville being a few feet to his right. 'You've got people like Robbie [Williams] going out there to sing, which I must say I'm very surprised about given all the comments that Robbie Williams has made in the past about gay rights.
'The fact that he's going out there to sing is extraordinary. I don't know what's happened to people. And it's not just him, the Black Eyed Peas are going, aren't they?'
In September Neville appeared on stage with Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer at the party's annual conference. He told delegates 'this is the time now to get behind Keir 100 per cent'. He confirmed he had joined the party in January, but has ruled out standing for Labour at the next election.
An ITV spokesman said: 'Gary Neville was expressing his own personal views in the context of a discussion about the treatment of workers in Qatar within a live broadcast.
'His views are his own and were not endorsed by ITV.'
During last year's European Championships the former Manchester United defender used his ITV commentary role to blast Boris Johnson's 'poor' leadership.
He berated the then-prime minister after the Three Lions' 2-1 win over Denmark at Wembley.
 Neville, the former Manchester United defender turned property magnate and businessman, was part of ITV's punditry team at the game, which saw England reach their first major final since 1966. 
The multi-millionaire socialist, who backed Jeremy Corbyn's Labour at the 2019 election, berated the then-Prime Minister by comparing his 'poor' leadership with the 'respectful' leadership of Gareth Southgate after the Three Lions' 2-1 win at Wembley
After the final whistle at a febrile national stadium he told the audience of 25.8million viewers: 'The standards of leaders in this country in the last couple of years has been poor.
'And looking at that man there that's everything a leader should be: respectful, humble, telling the truth, genuine. He's fantastic Gareth Southgate.'
But some questioned his outburst. Tory MP Michael Fabricant told MailOnline: 'Mixing sport and politics is never a wise move.'
In December 2019 Neville urged his Twitter followers to vote for Jeremy Corbyn's Labour, before the party was humiliated at the polls.
And in December 2020 he attacked Mr Corbyn's replacement, Sir Keir , over Covid restrictions.
He accused Sir Keir of 'sitting in the stands' by abstaining on crucial coronavirus lockdown measures.
This year he also sparked outrage by 
The multi-millionaire's taunt on social media drew furious condemnation.  
He triggered the row by commenting on an online post from then-business secretary Jacob Rees-Mogg backing Boris Johnson's attempt to return to Downing Street in October.
The multi-millionaire's taunt on social media drew furious condemnation
Neville triggered the row by commenting on an online post from then-business secretary Jacob Rees-Mogg (pictured) backing Boris Johnson's attempt to return to Downing Street
In response to Neville, farmer Andrew Guy said: 'As someone suffering from cancer, I think your choice of words is disgusting.'
Publican Adam Brooks, a panellist on GB News, said: 'Bad choice of word, no matter your feelings on this. Bad look.' 
David Reed added: 'For people who have lost loved ones, don't compare this to cancer, retract this please.'
Entrepreneur Paul Tavares said: 'As someone who has lost several close family members to the evil of cancer, how dare you make such a comparison in the name of political point scoring. How dare you!'
In July, Neville revealed he and co-pundit Jamie Carragher were often in hot water with Ofcom and TV bosses for commenting on politics and mocking the Tories.
He said remarks referring to Partygate, during a game in February – saying Crystal Palace and Brighton's managers and players knew the difference between a Friday party night and work – infuriated Sky executives.
Neville said he and Sky Sports colleague Jamie Carragher (right) had come under pressure from TV bosses for using their position to comment on politics and mock the Tories
Neville said: 'We got a right b******ing for that.
'We have about 1,000 complaints from Ofcom every week. If we mention politics we get a call usually from the hierarchy at Sky.'
At this year's Labour conference in Liverpool, Neville spoke to delegates about how there should be equal pay for men and women in sport. Yet in Qatar, women face huge restrictions.
Neville dismissed suggestions that he was a 'woke Leftie' and described himself as 'a capitalist' and 'entrepreneurial businessman who likes to make a profit'.
He has been investing in property after the economic crash in 2008, and his business interests have included hotels, restaurants, film production and eco schemes.
Reports last year indicated that his financial assets totalled £70million. Records from Companies House show that he has been involved with 60 businesses.
According to his LinkedIn profile, Neville - who also co-owns Salford City FC - is 'currently working on St Michael's, a £200million development project in Manchester city centre'.
EXCLUSIVE: Sunak tells Neville to stick to football - The Mail
Share or comment on this article: 
Defiant Gary Neville hits back at critics after his World Cup rant
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
