Administrative Appeals Tribunal political appointees who will lose their jobs | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Bureaucrat bloodbath: How dozens of highly paid political appointees are set to lose their jobs as controversial agency is AXED by Anthony Albanese
Prominent former MPs, staffers, candidates were appointed to Appeals Tribunal
Dozens were rushed through days before the 2022 federal election was called
AAT members make up to $500,000 to hear appeals of government decisions
Agency will be scrapped and replaced so they will likely lose the lucrative jobs 
Nic White For Daily Mail Australia
 01:56, 20 December 2022 
 02:19, 20 December 2022 
Dozens of former politicians, staffers, and failed candidates will likely lose their cushy taxpayer-funded jobs within months.
The Albanese Government will abolish the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and replace it with a new agency after a review found it was hopelessly politicised.
For almost 50 years, the AAT was the last resort for Australians unhappy with government decisions on anything from welfare to visas and compensation.
But over the past decade it became a 'jobs for the boys' factory stacked with has-beens friendly to the government, many lacking qualifications.
The problem peaked under ousted prime minister Scott Morrison with 40 per cent of those handed roles, with salaries up to $500,000, being political appointments.
Former attorney-general Michaelia Cash on March 31, just days before the May 21 election was called, rushed 19 new appointments onto the AAT and extended the terms of 26 others. 
Former attorney-general Michaelia Cash (pictured) rushed through political appointments to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. They will all likely lose their jobs when it is abolished
Six of the new appointees were former MPs or staffers, including ex-NSW Liberal minister Pru Goward and Mr Morrison's former chief of staff, Ann Duffield.
A similar tactic was employed just before the 2019 election, both at the AAT and other government agencies and bodies.
Ms Goward, who infamously called low-income Australians 'proles' in a divisive column last year, got a five-year term to judge their appeals.
Her appointment as a full-time senior member of the tribunal netted her up to $391,940 a year depending how much work she did.
Ms Goward was in NSW Parliament from 2007 to 2019, serving in several ministries including planning, and before that was the sex discrimination commissioner in 2001 to 2006.
She wrote John Howard's biography and is a close friend of the former prime minister and his wife Janette.
Pru Goward, who infamously called low-income Australians 'proles' in a divisive column last year, got a five-year term to judge their appeals
Ms Duffield was also appointed a senior member, on a part-time basis, and was previously on the tribunal from 2016 (again appointed just before a federal election) until leaving in 2020.
Ms Cash was criticised during Senate estimates in April for appointing her, but insisted she 'is someone who has an understanding of government'.
While working for Mr Morrison when he was immigration minister in 2014, she was embroiled in a scandal where the personal details of 10,000 asylum seekers were posted on the department's website.
Emails obtained under freedom of information revealed she revised a draft press released to remove admissions that the leak could 'put the safety of detainees and their families at risk'.
Scott Morrison's former chief of staff, Ann Duffield (bottom right), was appointed a senior member, on a part-time basis
The most lucrative political appointment was former Western Australian state minister Michael Mischin, who got a seven-year term as deputy president on $496,560 a year.
Mr Mischin won election to the WA Parliament in 2008 and later became attorney-general until the Liberal government was defeated in 2017.
He was named deputy opposition leader but lost his seat during the Liberal bloodbath at the 2021 election.
Justin Owen, a former staffer to Liberal ex-MP Bronwyn Bishop, was also promoted to deputy president, five years after first joining the AAT.
A lifetime member of the Sydney University Liberal Club, he was Australian Liberal Students Federation president in the mid-1990s.
After a failed tilt at state politics in 2010 while he was general manager of the Australian Hotels Association, he sat on the Liberal Party's NSW executive.
The most lucrative political appointment this year was former Western Australian state minister Michael Mischin, who got a seven-year term as deputy president on $496,560 a year
He joined the National Australia Bank as senior government relations manager until then-attorney-general George Brandis appointed him to the AAT.
Mr Owen took time out from NAB to work on the Brexit campaign in the UK and wrote an op-ed for right-wing magazine The Spectator titled Nude at 40,000 feet.
The piece was about his months as a Brexit campaigner but the title took its name from him taking a shower mid-flight in the Emirates first class cabin.
He wrote that Brexit 'seems to have leftists rhubarbing their grave concern about "Global Markets" and "The Economy" for the very first time'.
Mr Owen was part of a trio of Liberal Party-linked friends appointed to the AAT around the same time, and who are still on the tribunal today.
Former minister Joe Francis was appointed by Christian Porter, who served alongside him in the WA Government, as a full-time member just before the 2019 election.
Former minister Joe Francis was appointed as a full-time member just before the 2019 election
Mr Francis had been bundled out of politics when his party lost government two years earlier and was languishing at bus company Australian Transit Group.
But even there he came under fire after lending Mr Porter and other WA politicians some of the firm's buses for the 2019 election campaign.
The Liberal Party was forced to pay for the buses after the mates-rates deal sparked outrage.
The 'self-confessed bogan who loves high-powered cars' who once 'used the ashes of his beloved dog Sasha to ink a tattoo of her paw prints on his chest' now earns up to $249,420 a year on the AAT.
Both Mr Francis and Mr Owen are tight with Michael Cooke, who was appointed to the tribunal in 2015 and promoted to senior member two years later.
Mr Francis was criticised after lending Mr Porter and other WA politicians some of the firm's buses for the 2019 election campaign
Mr Cooke has no legal qualifications but was a close confidant of Tony Abbott, living in the ex-PM's former seat of Warringah.
Instead he is a former Qantas flight attendant, schoolteacher, and steel worker. 
He spent the 2019 election campaign, where Mr Abbott lost his seat, ferociously sledging his opponent Zali Steggall on social media.
Comments on Facebook posts by the local Many Daily newspaper included calling her a 'total fraud', 'cult queen', 'fake climate warrior', and 'weird'.
Mr Cooke in other comments called protesting schoolchildren a 'climate alarmist cult organised by GetUp'.
His position on the tribunal's migration and refugee division is explained by his AAT bio citing his 'long-term interest in immigration and... involvement with Manly Warringah ethnic communities'.
Michael Cooke (right) has no legal qualifications but was a close confidant of Tony Abbott (left), living in the ex-PM's former seat of Warringah
Others elevated to the prestigious rank of deputy president in the last days of the Morrison Government included failed Liberal candidate for Goldstein, in Melbourne, Denis Dragovic, and Don Morris, a former adviser to ex-Victorian premier Ted Baillieu and Senator Eric Abetz.
Former Victorian state Liberal MP Donna Petrovich, who failed as a federal candidate in 2013, was appointed in December 2018 as a part-time member and upgraded to full time before the election with a three-year term extension.
Dee-Anne Kelly, a former veteran affairs minister under Mr Howard, was one of six ex-MPs and eight Liberal staffers whom Mr Porter anointed at just before the 2019 election.
She was a Nationals MP from 1996 until she lost her seat at the 2007 election. Two years later her 21-year-old son Ian was jailed for drug trafficking.
Dee-Anne Kelly, a former veteran affairs minister under Mr Howard, was one of six ex-MPs and eight Liberal staffers anointed at just before the 2019 election
Despite the hefty pay packets of the AAT, part-time member Julie Quinlivan was for five years also pocketing $400,000 a year for another government job.
Ms Quinlivan was the full-time director of the Professional Services Review, which investigates and punishes medical professionals, from February 2017 until August.
Since July 2015, she was also making up to $249,420 a year - depending how much work she could juggle with her main job - through the AAT.
Soon after the Albanese Government came to power it was handed a report by two of Australia's most prominent jurists blasting the AAT's appointment process.
Keith Mason, long-serving NSW solicitor-general and later NSW Court of Appeal president from 1997 to 2008, and his successor Leslie Katz, who was also a Federal Court judge from 1998 to 2002, wrote to Attorney-General Mark Dreyfus in September.
Despite the hefty pay packets of the AAT, part-time member Julie Quinlivan was for five years also pocketing $400,000 a year for another government job
They argued the appointments before the election were suspect because they were kept secret from the public, much like Mr Morrison appointing himself to five additional ministries.
Mr Mason and Ms Katz used former Victorian Liberal senator Karen Synon as an example.
After her defeat at the 1998 election, she was appointed to the Refugee Review Tribunal in 2001 and the Migration Review Tribunal in 2004.
Left out in the cold during the Rudd-Gillard years, she was appointed to the AAT in 2015 by the new Coalition government and promoted to deputy president in 2020.
Ms Cash then extended her term until 2027 ahead of this year's election, despite it not expiring until 2023.
Former Victorian state Liberal MP Donna Petrovich, who failed as a federal candidate in 2013, was appointed in December 2018 as a part-time member and was upgraded to full time before the election with a three-year term extension
Political appointments to the AAT are nothing new, with Labor controversially appointing former finance minister Duncan Kerr president in 2012.
But according to analysis by the Australia Institute, the Coalition made 109 political appointments during its 21 years in government since 1996 and Labor naming 10 during its six years in office.
About eight per cent of Labor's appointments were political, versus 23 per cent in the first term of Coalition government under Mr Abbott and Malcolm Turnbull, and about 35 per cent in the Turnbull-Morrison second term.
Victorian Liberal senator Karen Synon was appointed to the AAT in 2015 by the new Liberal government and promoted to deputy president in 2020
Separate analysis by Crikey found in 2013 to 2019, the government replaced about 70 per cent of the 333 tribunal membership.
This left the AAT with 65 former Liberal Party staffers, Coalition politicians, party donors, members, unsuccessful Liberal candidates or Liberal government employees.
Mr Morrison's tenure saw 40 per cent of appointments linked to political parties. 
The AAT will continue operating with its existing members until the new agency, whose structure is yet to be determined, is established.
Tribunal members considered political appointees are likely to lose their jobs at that point and be replaced with more independent ones.
The AAT has 803 staff, according to its 2020-21 annual report, many of whom are likely to be moved over to the new agency. 
Share or comment on this article: 
Administrative Appeals Tribunal political appointees who will lose their jobs
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
