Lily Allen was offered to play the role of her real brother's sister on Game Of Thrones | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rolf Harris dead at 93: Paedophile TV host and musician who became one of Britain's biggest stars and rubbed shoulders with royalty before he was jailed for child sex crimes in 2014 'is killed by neck cancer'
Pictured: Two teenage boys who died in e-scooter tragedy that sparked Cardiff riots - as residents survey 'warzone' aftermath and force hits back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Is the axe hanging over Suella Braverman? Rishi Sunak gathers Cabinet as he mulls Home Secretary's fate with 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
Prince Harry loses latest legal challenge against Home Office after it refused to let him pay for Met Police to act as his personal security because its officers 'are not guns for hire'
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Wife whose husband always flies first class but makes  her and their children sit in economy asks if she should divorce him
From beloved entertainer with royal honours, to convicted paedophile living as a recluse before his death: Rolf Harris's stunning fall from grace
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey says a woman can 'quite clearly' have a penis as he is asked about trans rights in radio phone in
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
Row over Blur singer Damon Albarn's 'intrusive' eco-friendly heat pumps outside his Devon farmhouse as frontman installs a second box near public footpath 'before being granted planning permission'
Here comes the bride! Queen Rania of Jordan makes an emotional tribute to her future daughter-in-law at  celebration ahead of her wedding to Crown Prince Hussein next week
SATs marking is delayed for a week amid 'chaos' as technical glitches see teachers unable to access online assessment portal - with some now having to work over half term break
Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
Moscow running scared: Kremlin evacuates nine border villages and admits there is 'cause for serious concern' as pro-Ukraine fighters capture territory within Russia's Belgorod region
Ukraine carried out Nord Stream pipe blast, German police suspect - despite suspicious Russian naval activity in the area
Succession fans go wild after Brian Cox's real wife Nicole Ansari-Cox makes a surprise cameo at Logan Roy's funeral - did YOU spot it?
The best places to stay in the world: Scarborough B&B is named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
Prince Ludwig of Bavaria's bride Sophie Evekink FAINTED while saying her vows during lavish wedding (and the royal had a very gentlemanly response!)
Lily Allen's comments resurface after she revealed she was offered the role of her real brother's sister on Game Of Thrones - amid her defence of 'nepotism babies'
 10:13, 22 December 2022 
 10:25, 22 December 2022 
Resurfaced comments have revealed that 
 was offered to play her real brother's sister on 
... after the singer launched a wild rant in defence of 'nepotism babies'.
Lily's brother Alfie Allen, 36, joined the 
 fantasy series as heir to the Iron Islands Theon Greyjoy - and the Smile singer, 37, was put up for the role of Yara Greyjoy.
But she turned it down because of an 'uncomfortable' incest scene which would have seen the real-life siblings have an intimate moment on screen.
Siblings: Resurfaced comments have revealed that Lily Allen was offered to play her real brother's sister on Game Of Thrones... after the singer launched a wild rant in defence of 'nepotism babies'
The revelation from Lily came nine years ago in a Reddit thread where she asks fans to ask her anything.
One user said: 'How did you feel when you told Alfie to get a job and he immediately went and got a job on the coolest show on tv??', referring to her 2009 song Alfie, about her little brother wasting his life away.
Jason Momoa shows off his rugged good looks as he loads up a...
Billionaire James Packer shows off his slimmed down physique...
Christine McGuinness reveals she will give her three...
Lily Allen launches a wild rant in defence of 'nepotism...
Lily replies: 'Well, that was about a 5 year disparity between the two!
'But I've been asked to do a Game of Thrones cameo, they asked me if I'd be interested in playing Theon's sister, and I felt uncomfortable because I would have had to go on a horse and he would have touched me up and s**t.
Big role: Lily's brother Alfie Allen, 36, joined the HBO fantasy series as heir to the Iron Islands Theon Greyjoy - and the Smile singer, 37, was put up for the role of Yara Greyjoy
'Once they told me what was entailed, I said no thanks. I would be open to doing a musical cameo like Sigur Ros, though.' 
The scene she is referring to is Theon's introduction to the audience, when he joins his sister Yara on the back of her horse.
But he does not recognise her after not seeing one another for many years - and begins to fondle her private parts in an attempt to seduce her.
Gemma Whelan took the role up instead - and the feature for Alfie led to him landing gigs and other TV shows like SAS: Rogue Heroes and movies including Jojo Rabbit. 
Reveal: But she turned it down because of an 'uncomfortable' incest scene which would have seen the real-life siblings have an intimate moment on screen
Alfie was also nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for his part as Theon in 2019.
Their actor father Keith also revealed that he could have been cast as Balon Greyjoy - making him the father of Alfie in real life and on screen.
But he said he did a 'rubbish audition' deliberately as he thought it would be 'a bit cheesy, a bit obvious'.
Hitting back: It comes after Lily, who is the daughter of actor Keith Allen and film producer Alison Owen (all pictured in September 2010), voiced her opinions on 'nepotism babies' 
The resurfaced comments come after Lily launched a rant against the criticism of nepotism babies and said many are 'starved of stability and love' because of their 'narcissistic' parents.
The singer, 37, who is the daughter of actor 
 and film producer Alison Owen, voiced her opinions on 'nepotism babies', which refers to children born into affluent or famous families.
Lily claimed the nepotism babies that people should be 'worried about' are the ones working for 'legal firms, banks and in politics'.
Opinions: Lily claimed the nepotism babies people should be 'worried about' are the ones working for 'legal firms, banks and in politics' in a series of tweets
She took to Twitter to hit back at the criticism of nepotism babies in the entrainment industry and claimed it is not a 'parent friendly' business and said these children can be 'starved' of 'love'.
In her online rant, she said: 'The nepo babies y'all should be worrying about are the ones working for legal firms, the ones working for banks, and the ones working in politics.
'If we're talking about real world consequences and robbing people of opportunity. BUT that's none of my business.'
'And before you come at me for being a nepo baby myself, I will be the first to tell you that I literally deserve nothing,' she added.
Rant: Lily claimed the nepotism babies that people should be 'worried about' are the ones working for 'legal firms, banks and in politics'
When a Twitter user asked her, 'Why are your parents blue links on Wikipedia,' she replied: 'Because I'm a nepo baby, and both my parents are super talented.' 
Lily went on to claim that the entertainment industry is not 'parent friendly' and said it can be hard to 'see one's own privilege' when 'processing childhood trauma'. 
She continued: 'In childhood we crave stability and love, nurturing, we don't care about money or proximity to power yet. 
'Many of the nepo babies are starved of these basic things in childhood as their parents are probably narcissistic.
'And entertainment business is not parent friendly eg.. Touring/months away shooting. 
'We crave stability and love': She claimed the entrainment industry is not a 'parent friendly' business and said nepotism babies can be 'starved' of 'basic things'
'It can be hard to see one's own privilege when you're still processing childhood trauma, and a lot of these kids haven't figured that out yet.'
It is not the first time that 
 as she previously ranted about her father Keith when addressing the issue back in 2015.
According to the Daily Mirror, she was involved in an exchange on Twitter when she posted lyrics to Faces Song, Ooh La La, which read 'I wish that I knew what I know now, when I was younger'.
In the posts from 2015, one user replied: 'What, that you really are talentless and only 'famous' off the back of Daddy... bore off!' 
Lily reportedly hit back with: 'My dad walked out on me when I was 4, I'm sick of this. My dad was at Latitude when I headlined and didn't even come to see me.
Split: In previous interviews, Lily (pictured with her father Keith in 2007) also revealed that the ending of her parents' marriage in 1989 left her insecure and desperately craving attention 
'I've probably spent more time walking my dogs than I have with my dad my entire life. And I'm 30, too old to be running to anyone.'
The Smile hitmaker has previously said she would spend weekends in the hotel room above the Groucho club as a child, with a Toblerone to keep her going.
In previous interviews, she also revealed that the ending of her parents' marriage in 1989 left her insecure and desperately craving attention.
Her father Keith has had six children with four women and Lily was partly raised by her former stepfather, comedian Harry Enfield.
Father: Last year, Lily also detailed her strained relationship with her father Keith (pictured in 2007) and admitted they 'haven't spoken in a while'
Lily said: 'One of my earliest memories is of when Mum and Dad split up. We were in our council flat in Bloomsbury and Dad was saying: 'Me and Mum are splitting up now.'
'I was about four and I was thinking: 'Does that mean we've got to look for a new dad?' It was very hard for Mum. She was producing her first film and my younger brother, Alfie, was a difficult kid.
'I just lived within my own brain. I had this blanket and I'd suck my thumb and watch the world go by.'
 and admitted they 'haven't spoken in a while'.
She told The Telegraph: 'I haven't really spoken to him, to be honest, for a while. 
'The last time I texted him was on Father's Day and he texted back saying 'Thank you.' We haven't connected for a while.'
In 2018, Lily said Keith had been left fuming when she claimed he'd suffered a 'cocaine-induced heart attack' at Glastonbury festival when she was 13 - when really it was acute food poisoning.
Lily confessed: 'I got quite a cross text from him this weekend. There was a big piece [in the press] and he texted me, 'Err cocaine induced heart attack at Glastonbury. Wow'.
'And I said, 'Sorry that's what I thought… I'm really sorry if I got that wrong but that's how I remembered it and you never explained it to me in any other way so that's what I wrote' and he said, 'Well that's not true.'
Upset: In previous interviews, she also revealed that the ending of her parents' marriage in 1989 left her insecure and desperately craving attention
And I said, 'I'm really really sorry if I got that wrong, what was it?' And he said, 'Acute food poisoning'.'
On her bond with her dad, she added: 'I was close with him and in my teenage years I really wanted to forge a relationship with him so I used to go and watch Fulham play every Saturday with him and his mates and things were really good at a certain point.'
Lily shares two daughters - Marnie, nine, and Ethel, 11 - with her ex Sam Cooper and she is married to Stranger Things actor David Harbour. 
Family: Lily shares two daughters - Marnie, nine, and Ethel, 11 - with her ex Sam Cooper and she is married to Stranger Things actor David Harbour (pictured)
Share or comment on this article: 
Lily Allen was offered to play the role of her real brother's sister on Game Of Thrones
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
