Ivanka Trump gets a VERY short haircut before golfing in Miami | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rioters attack police on Cardiff estate after two teenagers die in e-scooter crash - but force hits back at social media rumours of a 'chase' and insist accident had 'already occured' when they arrived
Christian is banned from teaching for misgendering a trans pupil 'in first case of its kind in UK' - but he defiantly vows to appeal after saying he is 'devastated' by ruling
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
Hundreds outraged by woman's 'rude' and 'inconsiderate' act on three-hour flight
Blur frontman Damon Albarn upsets his parish council with a 'noisy eyesore' at his huge farmhouse in Devon
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' and says Phillip Schofield was 'entitled to a better send-off' from This Morning
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS: Ashes to ashes, ad break to ad break.... The first episode of This Morning since Philip Schofield's departure was an awkward obituary
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
The £15 loaf of sourdough that 'helps you sleep, boosts your immune system, lowers your blood pressure and cuts your stress'
RICHARD LITTLEJOHN: It's just a silly squabble over Suella Braverman's speeding ticket. Grow up everyone. Nobody died
DR MARTIN SCURR: Why do I always have to cough after eating?
The best places to stay in the WORLD in 2023: Scarborough B&B named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
Ray Stevenson dies at 58: Irish actor starred Marvel's Thor movies and the upcoming Star Wars series Ahsoka
Ignore Keir Starmer's vacuous promises. Labour's fanatical ideology means it can never cure the sickness in the NHS, writes leading oncologist KAROL SIKORA
'I had a chance to save a life, I wanted to know it was successful': The heartwarming letters that started a friendship between bone marrow donor and the little girl he saved
Plot to drive out equality chief who's standing up for women: Whistleblowers at human rights commission reveal boss is facing 'witch hunt' from trans lobby
How a gender battle engulfed Britain's equalities watchdog: Baroness faced backlash from left-wing MPs after publicly backing female-only spaces
New year, new 'do... and a new attitude! Ivanka Trump leaves Miami salon sporting a VERY short haircut - before heading to Palm Beach to golf with friends at her father Donald's RIVAL club
Ivanka, 41, was spotted leaving a hair salon in Miami on Wednesday wearing a '70s-inspired denim jumpsuit
The trip to the salon suggests a return to her White House bob, which she debuted in South America in 2019 
Ivanka's hair was pulled back, but it looked as though she had gotten more than a few inches cut off
The next day, the former White House senior adviser headed to Palm Beach, Florida, to play golf with friends
She was seen at the exclusive Everglades Club, which allegedly denied her father, Donald Trump, membership, prompting him to open Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach in 1999
 20:44, 12 January 2023 
 13:41, 13 January 2023 
 was spotted leaving a hair salon in Miami on Wednesday sporting a much shorter cut before heading to Palm Beach, 
, to play golf with friends the next day — at her father's rival club. 
 with a zipper front paired with $850 Adidas Gazelle x Gucci pink glow sneakers to get her hair done. She 
topped off the retro look with black sunglasses and a white leather tote bag, but she hid her new hairdo by wearing her locks pulled back.  
Ivanka's trip to the salon suggests a return to her White House bob haircut, which she debuted on a political trip to South America in 2019 and later grew out. 
Most people like to show off their new 'dos when they get their hair done, but Ivanka did the opposite. Instead of rocking a sleek blowout, her blonde hair was center-parted and pulled back into a tiny twist at the nape of her neck when she left. 
Ivanka Trump, 41, was spotted leaving a Miami hair salon with a much shorter 'do on Wednesday 
 Most people like to show off their new 'dos when they get their hair done, but Ivanka did the opposite. Instead of rocking a sleek blowout, her blonde hair was center-parted and pulled back into a tiny twist at the nape of her neck when she left
The next day, the former White House senior adviser headed to Palm Beach, Florida, to play golf with friends
Move over Prince Harry! Sarah Ferguson gives new royal...
Are YOU guilty of breaking bartender etiquette? Bar workers...
Queen Letizia of Spain stuns in £70 Mango printed dress as...
Loose tendrils framed her face, and from the back, it looked as though she had gotten more than a few inches cut off. She had much longer hair earlier this month when she was seen sporting a ponytail to play padel at billionaire businessman Wayne Boich's mansion on New Year's Day. 
It's unclear when exactly she chopped her hair. It's possible that her latest trip to the salon was a follow-up appointment after her initial cut. She wore her locks pulled back and covered with a cap to go for a walk with a friend near her home in Surfside, Florida, on Monday. 
Ivanka has tended to favor longer hairstyles over the years, with the exception of the neck-length bob she experimented with as first daughter. Prior to that, the last time she had a chin-length bob was in 2005, nearly two decades ago. 
After leaving the salon, she was seen returning to her luxury condominium building. She and her family have 
spent the past two years living at Arte Surfside, which is nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour.
one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month. There is a tennis court on the roof, and the family has their own private pool and yard. 
Ivanka was seen at the exclusive Everglades Club, which was opened in 1919 and boasts an 18-hole golf course
Ivanka was dressed in a royal blue polo shirt with white piping, which she wore untucked over a pair of slim-fit mint-green capri pants
She was joined by two other blondes, who were also dressed in various shades of blue
The Everglades Club is just miles away from Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach
Former President Donald Trump supposedly has a grudge against the elite Everglades Club, which allegedly denied him membership
The Everglades Club's rejection of her father reportedly led him to open his own rival golf club in 1999
Ivanka has taken a step back from her father in recent months and recently announced that she would not be a part of his 2024 presidential campaign 
Ivanka was also photographed having a meeting with three women on her balcony on Wednesday. They appeared to be employees, and one of them was holding what looked to be a laptop in her hand. 
It's unclear what is in store for her career-wise — if anything — after she officially quit politics a few months ago. 
Before her father, Donald Trump, became president, she appeared on his reality show The Apprentice, served as executive vice president of the Trump Organization, and had her own eponymous fashion lines. 
She gave up her former life in New York City to serve in the Trump administration and never returned back to it. 
On Thursday, Ivanka was spotted golfing with friends at the Everglades Club in Palm Beach, just miles away from Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach. 
Ivanka, who inherited her dad's love of golf, was one of his senior advisers when he was in the White House 
Ivanka looked to be enjoying a life of leisure on Thursday as she worked on her swing in Palm Beach 
The drive from her home in Surfside, Florida, to the Palm Beach club is roughly an hour and a half, making it an easy day trip 
Ivanka shielded her eyes from the Florida sun in a white cap that covered her new hair cut 
The mother of three didn't appear to be wearing any makeup as she made her way through the golf course 
Ivanka wore white golf gloves and carried a club with a pink handle that stood out against the green lawn and trees 
It's unclear what is in store for Ivanka career-wise - if anything - after she officially quit politics in November 
Before her father became president, she appeared on his reality show The Apprentice, served as executive vice president of the Trump Organization, and had her own eponymous fashion lines
Whether or not her slight was intentional, former President Trump supposedly has a grudge against the elite Everglades Club, which allegedly denied him membership, prompting him to open his own rival golf club in 1999. 
'Everglades Club had its ways, very rich and based on Palm Beach traditions,' Greg Melvin, Palm Beach resident and business owner, told 
 in 2016. 'It’s a private club and they can say no. They didn’t like Trump and wouldn’t let him in. So he set up another club as a big eff you.'
Ivanka seemed worlds away from her father's nearby Mar-a-Lago estate as she joined her pals at the ritzy club just a few months after she confirmed she wouldn't be a part of his Trump 2024 presidential campaign. 
The mom once again wore her short hair pulled back and covered with a white cap, keeping just how much of her locks she had cut off hidden. 
Ivanka, who inherited her dad's love of golf, was dressed in a royal blue polo shirt with white piping, which she wore untucked over a pair of slim-fit mint-green capri pants. 
Ivanka gave up her former life in New York City to serve in the Trump administration and never returned back to it
Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, relocated to Miami with their three children - Arabella, Joseph, and Theodore - after her father left office in January 2021
The couple was reportedly ostracized by the old social circles they used to run in when the lived in New York 
Ivanka has since made new friends in Florida as she continues to focus on her personal life 
Ivanka appeared to be having a great time golfing with her pals while soaking up the Florida sunshine 
It's unclear if her stop in Palm Beach was a day trip or an extended stay 
Ivanka seemed worlds away from her father's nearby Mar-a-Lago estate as she joined her pals at the ritzy club
At one point, she and her friends were seen walking with their arms around each other as they headed to the next hole
She was joined by two other blondes, who were also dressed in various shades of blue. At one point, the three of them were seen walking with their arms around each other as they headed to the next hole. 
The drive from her home in Surfside to the Palm Beach club is roughly an hour and a half, making it an easy day trip for the mom. 
Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, relocated to Miami with their three children — Arabella, Joseph, and Theodore — after her father left office in January 2021. 
seem to be happier than ever in their new community, where they have found new friends and are getting ready to move into their dream home.
After keeping a relatively low profile, the former first daughter has
 returned to documenting her life on Instagram, and she doesn't seem to have any desire to return to her old life in Washington, D.C.
Ivanka's golf outing comes one day after she stopped by a salon in Miami to get her hair done 
Ivanka channeled the ' 70s in a collared denim jumpsuit with a zipper front paired with $850 Adidas Gazelle x Gucci pink glow sneakers for the outing 
Ivanka has favored longer hairstyles over the years, but she had a chin-length bob back in 2005 (left). Over a decade later, she debuted a similar cut on a trip to South America in 2019 (center). She still had long hair when she celebrated Hanukkah with her family last month (right)
Ivanka had on dark sunglasses when she left the salon carrying a white leather tote in her hand 
Loose tendrils framed her face, and from the back, it looked as though she had gotten more than a few inches cut off
Ivanka's casual updo revealed the delicate gold earrings she was wearing 
Adorable moment girl asks Kate what it is like to be a Princess
Queen Camilla attends the Chelsea Flower Show
Cosy chats with Kate! Princess meets children at Chelsea Flower Show
King Charles and Queen Camilla arrive at Chelsea Flower Show
Countryfile viewers go wild for teen farmer after giving up TikTok
Princess of Wales tells children 'you have to work hard' as a royal
Dame Kelly Holmes got 'carried away' when meeting Princess of Wales
Thomas Skinner cooks quirky new recipe that mixes curry and pasta
Heartbroken grandmother reveals she was scammed off £10,000 on eBay
Prince William meets Royal Navy crew for Mental Health Awareness Week
2010: Kevin McCloud admires Lincoln Miles' bungalow transformation
Cadbury Australia launches the Caramilk Wallaby
In November, she released a statement saying she would not be a part of her father's 2024 presidential campaign. Instead, she has chosen to prioritize her family and their private life. 
Ivanka and Jared are close to finishing the renovations on their 
, an exclusive island known as the 'Billionaire Bunker.' 
bought the fixer-upper a little over a year after they dropped $31.8 million on a two-acre plot of land on the island in 2020. They plan
 on moving into the spatial 8,500-square-foot abode with their children once it is finally completed. 
Ivanka and Jared have been seen enjoying walks to Indian Creek, both with and without their children, to check on the progress of their property. 
Their current rental at Arte Surfside is 
for $18.8 million sometime this year, presumably after they move into their new home. 
After leaving the salon, she was seen returning to her luxury condominium building. She and her family have spent the past two years living at Arte Surfside, which is nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour
Ivanka's hair was pulled back into a tiny twist at the nape of her neck 
Arte Surfside is one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month. There is a tennis court on the roof, and the family has their own private pool and yard
Ivanka was later seen having a meeting on her balcony with three women who appeared to be employees 
One of them was holding what looked to be a laptop in her hand as they chatted 
Ivanka took sips from a travel coffee mug during the meeting on her balcony 
Ivanka's current rental at Arte Surfside is set to hit the market for $18.8 million sometime this year, presumably after she and her family move into the dream home they are building on Indian Creek, an island known as 'Billionaire Bunker' 
Now that Ivanka is officially done with politics, she has been filling her days with workout sessions with her personal trainer. She is regularly spotted driving to and from the gym in matching workout sets that highlight her toned physique. 
Water sports have also become a natural pastime for the born and bred New Yorker, who has been taking wakeboarding lessons in her free time.
On Sunday, Ivanka enjoyed a day of jet skiing and fishing with her sons Joseph and Theodore as she continues to live a life of leisure in Florida after officially bidding farewell to politics. 
She took to her Instagram Stories to share snapshots from their private boat outing in Miami, which has become a regular pastime for her and her family. 
A few days later, the family celebrated Jared's 42nd birthday on Tuesday, January 10, though Ivanka opted not to post a tribute to her husband on Instagram this year. 
Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Mansion Troubles: Why He and Palm Beach Are Still at Odds – The Hollywood Reporter
Share or comment on this article: 
Ivanka Trump gets a VERY short haircut before golfing in Miami
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
