LIZ HOGGARD shares the secrets of successful dating when the two of you are older | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
She said YES! Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez are engaged - after a swoon-worthy proposal on his superyacht and a ginormous diamond to seal the deal
Madeleine McCann detectives begin new major search for missing toddler at Portuguese reservoir that suspect Christian Brueckner called his 'little paradise'
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
Teacher who bombarded 17-year-old schoolgirl with explicit messages on Snapchat and matched with her on dating app is banned from classroom for two years
Ray Stevenson dies at 58: Irish actor starred Marvel's Thor movies and the upcoming Star Wars series Ahsoka
Junior doctors will strike for three days in June as union chiefs warn walkouts could continue throughout summer after new pay talks break down
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
So who could replace axed Phillip Schofield on This Morning? The runners and riders who might take over from Phil AND Holly after feud
'Phil was sacked. He and Holly deserve each other': Ex-This Morning star Eamonn Holmes tears into Willoughby and Schofield - as Dermot O'Leary and Alison Hammond pay 30-second tribute to axed host at start of today's show
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
Who's supporting who in Team Willoughby v Team Schofield? As Holly wins battle over the This Morning sofa, we reveal the feuding pair's rival camps - from the show's veteran editor Martin Frizell to head of daytime Emma Gormley and ITV boss Kevin Lygo
Body language expert reveals what Alison Hammond and Dermot O'Leary REALLY felt as they took over This Morning - as fans question brevity of Phillip Schofield tribute
So who do YOU think should replace Phil and Holly? Rylan Clark and Dermot O'Leary take the lead in MailOnline poll of who should appear on This Morning sofa
Revealed: The 15 best sandwiches of all time (and how to serve them) - with two vegan options making the cut
Moving swiftly on! Alison Hammond and Dermot O'Leary pay just 30 seconds tribute to Phillip Schofield on This Morning - as fans spot that his name has already been wiped from the show's credits
Man, 37, is fighting for his life following attack at his home as two are arrested on suspicion of attempted murder
Retired colonel denies defrauding MoD out of £43,000 to pay for his children's boarding school fees and tells jurors he was not 'wedded' to the idea of private education
Is this the beginning of the end for LTNs? Now Sadiq Khan admits low-traffic neighbourhoods 'aren't perfect' and some may need REMOVING in London -
I'm an A&E consultant and this why I believe vapes should be be banned from shops
Are police finally cracking down on TikTok 'prankster'? Cops swoop on teenager's flat that he shares with his mum as outrage grows over clips of him storming homes at random, harassing women, stealing dogs and jumping into strangers' cars
The tiny changes in your voice that give away whether you are faking a sickie... and can be picked up by AI
Drug drivers as young as 15 and as old as 77 are being caught high on cocaine and cannabis: 19,828 motorists were reported by police for taking illegal substances last year, DVLA figures show
Newcastle 0-0 Leicester LIVE: Foxes riding their luck as they look for vital win to boost their survival bid, with Toon hitting the post TWICE after Bruno Guimaraes escaped red for early lunge
Love in later life …and how to survive it - Sex, sleep, sounds from the 70s: LIZ HOGGARD shares the secrets of successful dating when the two of you are older
Liz Hoggard met her partner when she was 57 and he was 59 in 2020
UK-based writer explains the essential truths she's learnt dating in later life
From, using sounds of the 70s to make up after an argument, to not needing to be a step-parent for their children 
 06:00, 18 December 2022 
 07:48, 18 December 2022 
When M (AKA The Yorkshireman) and I became a couple in June 2020, I was 57 and he was 59. M had two kids from a 14-year marriage, and a stepdaughter. I’d had relationships lasting several years, but mostly lived alone, buoyed up by great friends, travel and a dynasty of cats. 
We considered ourselves youthful – doing Pilates and keeping up with the latest music and films – but the fact remained that we’d already lived two-thirds of our allotted lifespans. The thing that marks out a later-life love affair isn’t, however, what most people think it is – namely, sex. Sex is great in your 60s; better, actually, as you’re more honest about your body. The markedly changed thing is my list of priorities – more specifically, the things that are no longer on that list. 
Among the foremost is cohabitation. It’s an obsession for the young (understandable, too, if you’re thinking of starting a family) but in your 60s, living under the same roof is often not a viable proposition. I’d go as far as to say that a number of older people are constitutionally single, even in relationships. To quote the magnificent Nancy Dell’Olio, 61: ’I am a single person, with some interruptions. It’s a state of mind. I am in a relationship, but I consider myself a single person.’ 
The funny thing is, my relationship with M nearly didn’t happen. It took a global crisis to get us together. On our first date he found me too ‘serious’ and ‘grown-up’. On our second, he talked about meeting a promising woman from 
. Eventually he invited me for supper – to spell out that we were just friends. I recall an awkward night in his garden, eating a Covid supper (separate towels and cutlery) as M, ever the blunt Yorkshireman, explained why we weren’t romantically attracted to each other. 
Liz, 60, and ‘The Yorkshireman’, 62, have been together since June 2020. Liz Hoggard met her partner when she was 57 and he was 59 in 2020. UK-based writer explains the essential truths she's learnt dating in later life
Normally I would have bolted, but I knew the lockdown taxi fare home was going to be prohibitive so decided to make an evening of it. More wine was opened and I thought: ‘Oh well, we can be platonic friends: the Thelma and Louise of South London.’ Then, in an unlikely plot twist, we started kissing, making nonsense of the Covid precautions. I still got the taxi home, but something had shifted. Here are some of the essential truths I’ve learnt over the intervening two years… 
REMEMBER, YOUR PARTNERE DID HAVE A LIFE BEFORE YOU 
There will be constant reminders of the past: anniversaries, christenings, graduations… It’s OK to be a little jealous when your partner starts reminiscing about that family holiday in Mexico. But the important thing is they are here in the present with you. 
Bad boy for life? As Diddy reveals he secretly welcomed a...
BBC star Rachae​l Bland's widower announces he is expecting...
IT DOESN'T MATTER WHAT YOU CALL IT 
When I talk to friends who found love later in life, we agree that it doesn’t matter how you explain the basis for your relationship: love, friendship, companionship, friends with benefits… Defining these things seems important when you’re young – when you’re older what matters is that you have fun, understand each other’s back stories and miss one another when you’re apart. 
DON'T EXPECT YOUR BEST FRIENDS TO BE ALL THAT INTERESTED 
They have already lived through every detail of the ‘dating years’. Now they just want you to be happy. To that end, your greatest, most protective pals may not warm to the new love. Or they may have preferred you single, free to join them at a moment’s notice. 
YOUR BEST FRIEND WILL, HOWEVER, MAKE A BETTER NURSE
They have already lived through every detail of the ‘dating years’. Now they just want you to be happy. To that end, your greatest, most protective pals may not warm to the new love. Or they may have preferred you single, free to join them at a moment’s notice. 
YOU DON'T NEED TO BE A STEP-PARENT
You are Dad’s friend – hopefully a welcome guest, offering small gifts and advice on A-level choices – but nobody needs your opinion on household disputes. Avoid drawing curtains or switching on lights in a primadonna-ish way. Similarly, I’d advise no joint pets in the first five years (dogs are very demanding). It’s best to deal with parents/ siblings separately. Nobody can understand complex family dynamics in five minutes. 
Sex is great in your 60s – better actually, as you’re more honest about your body
In September, M’s 20-year-old son came to live with him before university. Now he has his daughter, 17, with him. The last thing I want to do is encroach on their time together, so we live separately in the week and meet on Friday nights and Sundays. Texting keeps the communication going. 
SOME THINGS ARE BEST LEFT SEPARATE 
Our friendship groups don’t automatically hang out together. We certainly do not feel obliged to spend Christmas together. My bank account is my own business at this age (ditto my pension – or lack of it). 
SEX ISN'T THE ISSUE - SLEEP IS
The interesting thing is that it’s sleep, not sex, that can divide. There will be snoring. Body temperature is another issue for mature couples. Wool is the game changer; it keeps you cool when it’s hot, and warm when it’s cold (I’m obsessed with Woolroom’s mattress toppers and duvets). To my great sadness, however, maturity does not make men like nighties. M would happily torch my collection of flattering slips – but how else is a 50-something woman supposed to go to bed with a new lover? 
Break up your time together into smaller blocks: weekend breaks and nights away. I’m a glass-half-empty girl, panicking about passports and vaccine passes; M is happy to breeze in at the last minute with a man bag. So we’ve reached a compromise. He organises all outdoor activities. I book everything indoors (otherwise he would happily sleep under a hedge). Don’t talk politics or religion – and don’t get into cooking or home décor. It would be boring if everyone had the same taste. 
If you don’t see each other during the week, you need a proper debrief, so it’s good to make Friday or Saturday night a ‘date fortress’ (to quote American psychologists John and Julie Gottman). But accept that some hobbies (football/theatre) will just never gel at this age. 
Listening to Radio 2’s Sounds of the 70s can repair most arguments, particularly in the car. It’s your era, your music. There’s so much goodwill at this age and you both want it to work. Be the bigger person and phone first. 
AND IF THE MUSIC ENDS BUT YOU HAVEN'T MADE UP?
Then it’s possible to stay friends – particularly if you’ve talked in advance about how you’ll both handle it. A split is entirely possible. There’s no shame in going back to being single – it’s a valid life choice. 
Share or comment on this article: 
LIZ HOGGARD shares the secrets of successful dating when the two of you are older
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
See the key trend collection from per una at M&S.  Shop now.
You can't fake TV chemistry - the camera doesn't lie: Louise Minchin warns viewers will always spot problems...
They're the 'guilt-free' doughnuts with the same calories as a glass of milk - but are they any good? We put...
Does your face need a high-tech four-day skin retreat?
Why you should cut that toxic friend out of your life: Mind Doctor MAX PEMBERTON reveals in the wake of the...
Why we should all lie more often: Expert reveals that fibbing can actually make you feel better
'What's it like being a royal?': Adorable moment little girl quizzes Kate at Chelsea Flower Show - as...
Sophie makes a secret trip to Iraq: Duchess of Edinburgh spends two days in Baghdad, Palace reveals, on...
'Smile, you're away from your desks': Prince William cracks jokes with staff during a visit to Earthshot...
Lady in red! Emma Weymouth dazzles in an embellished scarlet gown in Cannes at the Vogue Party
Kate reveals how she is still 'learning to be a royal': Dame Kelly Holmes tells how Princess of Wales told...
Here comes the bride! Queen Rania of Jordan makes an emotional tribute to her future daughter-in-law at&nbsp;...
'The jury's still out': Experts debate the Prince and Princess of Wales's 'slick' new Instagram videos as a...
'A peek behind the scenes!' Prince and Princess of Wales share new black-and-white image of piano-playing...
Sarah Ferguson reveals Princess Eugenie's due date and it's extremely close
PrettyLittleThing - Offers on women's clothing
Get inspired by the newest styles and offers
ASOS - Enjoy discounts from ASOS
Click through for ASOS promo codes this Autumn
Missguided - Get the latest fashion
Spend less with Missguided's exclusive codes
Treat yourself to offers on make-up and accessories
Check out the latest Wayfair sale to save on furniture
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
