Nadhim Zahawi fights to stay in job amid row over tax affairs | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Rishi Sunak orders probe into Nadhim Zahawi admitting 'questions need answering' over multi-million pound tax settlement with HMRC - as poll finds 59% of Brits think Tory chair should quit
Nadhim Zahawi is facing calls to give more details about dispute on tax affairs
The Tory chairman paid to settle a case with HMRC while he was Chancellor 
Labour says his position is 'untenable' but Mr Zahawi has no intention of quitting
James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline
 08:25, 23 January 2023 
 12:52, 24 January 2023 
Rishi Sunak ordered a probe into 
 today admitting 'questions need answering' over his tax affairs.
The PM has asked his standards advisers to examine the situation after it emerged he paid millions of pounds to settle a dispute with 
 while he was Chancellor last summer.
Allies of Mr Zahawi insist he has no intention of quitting, stressing the tax authorities accepted the error was 'careless' rather than deliberate, and he opted to pay the full amount demanded rather than negotiating. 
 said the premier was responding to 'additional facts' that surfaced over the weekend. No10 insisted Mr Sunak retains confidence in the senior minister, who will continue his duties during the investigation. 
However, the row is showing little sign of abating, with Labour branding Mr Zahawi's position 'untenable' and senior 
 suggesting he will need to answer more questions.
Research by Find Out Now conducted over the weekend found that 59 per cent thought Rishi Sunak should dismiss him. Just 14 per cent said he should stay on, while 28 per cent were not sure.  
Mr Zahawi shouted a cheery 'morning' to waiting reporters and photographers as he arrived at Tory HQ in Westminster today. 
Nadhim Zahawi shouted a cheery 'morning' to waiting reporters and photographers as he arrived at Tory HQ in Westminster today 
Research by Find Out Now conducted over the weekend found that 59 per cent thought Rishi Sunak should dismiss Mr Zahawi. Just 14 per cent said he should stay on, while 28 per cent were not sure
Downing Street has voiced Rishi Sunak's (pictured today) confidence in the senior minister
Van drivers will be hit by Sadiq Khan's Ulez expansion with...
Shocking rise of 'something for nothing Britain': Over half...
Speaking on a visit to a hospital in Northamptonshire, Mr Sunak said his adviser Sir Laurie Magnus - who took on the role shortly before Christmas - would be looking into the case. 
'Integrity and accountability is really important to me and clearly in this case there are questions that need answering,' he said.
'That's why I've asked our independent adviser to get to the bottom of everything, to investigate the matter fully and establish all the facts and provide advice to me on Nadhim Zahawi's compliance with the ministerial code.
'I'm pleased that Nadhim Zahawi has agreed with that approach and has agreed to fully co-operate with that investigation.'
Asked whether Mr Zahawi would stand down during the probe, Mr Sunak said: 'As is longstanding practice, he will continue to play the role he does.' 
In a statement, Mr Zahawi said: 'I welcome the Prime Minister's referral of this matter to the independent adviser on ministerial standards. I look forward to explaining the facts of this issue to Sir Laurie Magnus and his team.
'I am confident I acted properly throughout and look forward to answering any and all specific questions in a formal setting to Sir Laurie.
'In order to ensure the independence of this process, you will understand that it would be inappropriate to discuss this issue any further, as I continue my duties as chairman of the Conservative and Unionist Party.'
The PM's official spokesman said: 'He retains the Prime Minister's confidence, that's why he continues in the role as is standard practice.'
He could not give a timeline for the investigation to be finished and acknowledged it would be up to Mr Sunak if he wants to disagree with its conclusions.
'The Prime Minister remains the final arbiter of the code,' the spokesman said.
Mr Zahawi admitted on Saturday that he had paid money to the taxman after making an error – although he did not address allegations that he had to pay back as much as £4.8million, including a major penalty over his shareholdings in polling firm YouGov.
He denied allegations that he avoided tax by using an offshore company registered in Gibraltar to hold shares in YouGov.
Keir Starmer said Mr Zahawi's position was 'untenable' and he should be sacked.
He told reporters: 'I think it's obvious that Zahawi can't stay as Tory Party chair, the very idea that he can be discussing and negotiating his own tax affairs with the body that he's supposed to be running, everybody knows it's wrong.
'He clearly isn't going to resign and so the Prime Minister needs to show some leadership.
'This is a test of the Prime Minister. He promised us – his first words – integrity and accountability.
'Well, if those words mean anything, the Prime Minister should sack him, and sack him today and show some leadership.
'Because if he doesn't, it's just going to be further evidence, I think, for the British public, as to just how weak this Prime Minister really is.'
Failing to sack Mr Zahawi would be a 'strong failure of leadership' and 'if this was somebody in my team, I would sack them', Sir Keir added.
Keir Starmer (pictured on a visit to Octopus Energy in Berkshire today) said Mr Zahawi's position is 'untenable'
Former minister Tim Loughton told BBC Radio 4's Westminster Hour last night: 'I think it's fair to let him (Mr Zahawi) have his say and put his side of the case. It would have just been more helpful if he had done that rather more fully rather earlier on.'
Mr Loughton added: 'I don't know if Nadhim has done something ill-advised or inappropriate.
'He has certainly not done anything illegal by the sounds of it otherwise there would be more implications.
'If there is more to it, then he will absolutely have to stand up and take the consequences and the Prime Minister, I'm sure, will take the appropriate action.
'But at the moment we don't know the whole story.'
Other Tories including former party leader Iain Duncan Smith have warned Mr Zahawi must share more information. 
Lord Young of Cookham told Times Radio: 'I think that Nadhim will need to be more transparent about exactly what happened, otherwise the story simply isn't going to go away.'
He added: 'Normally a Cabinet minister, particularly somebody who is well off as Nadhim clearly is, would have some really professional reputable accountants dealing with all his tax affairs, making sure that you didn't get into the sorts of difficulties that we are seeing.'
Mr Zahawi did not take founder shares when he set up YouGov, saying in his statement on Saturday that his father took shares 'in exchange for some capital and his invaluable guidance'.
He continued: 'Twenty one years later, when I was being appointed chancellor of the Exchequer, questions were being raised about my tax affairs. I discussed this with the Cabinet Office at the time.
'Following discussions with HMRC, they agreed that my father was entitled to founder shares in YouGov, though they disagreed about the exact allocation. They concluded that this was a 'careless and not deliberate' error.
'So that I could focus on my life as a public servant, I chose to settle the matter and pay what they said was due, which was the right thing to do.'
HMRC agreed that he had never set up an offshore structure, including Balshore Investments, 'and that I am not the beneficiary of Balshore Investments,' Mr Zahawi said.
He added that the matter was resolved and that all his tax affairs were 'up to date' when he was appointed Conservative party chairman by Mr Sunak in October.
Sources stressed that there was no 'negotiation' with HMRC, and Mr Zahawi merely ordered his accountants to pay what the tax authorities asked in order to clear the matter up. 
The Sun on Sunday said Mr Zahawi - founder of polling firm YouGov - had been put forward for a knighthood in the recent honours process, but did not feature on the final list.
A source close to the former vaccines minister said: 'Nadhim is very proud to have run the UK's world-beating vaccine rollout, and reopened schools during Omicron.
'And it was the honour of his life to coordinate Her Majesty's funeral when in the Cabinet Office. He did those things to serve the country he loves and that is reward enough.'
A Westminster source familiar with the process told MailOnline: 'These faceless apparatchiks go around awarding themselves every honour under the sun at the drop of a hat. 
'But when someone leads the only two successes of the State in recent hears, in vaccines and Her Majesty's funeral, some pen-pusher decides to block recognition of true achievement because of some technical accounting point. It's shameful.' 
Despite the growing controversy his Cabinet colleague James Cleverly insisted yesterday that he would not be sacked.
Mr Zahawi is understood to have made a payment to the tax authorities - reported to be well into seven figures - while Chancellor at the end of Boris Johnson's reign
Asked if Mr Zahawi would survive until Prime Minister's Questions on Wednesday, the Foreign Secretary told Sky News: 'Yes, because he is a very, very effective minister, he has shown himself to be a successful businessman before coming into politics.' But Mr Cleverly faced mockery for claiming in a separate interview that he did not know the details of Mr Zahawi's situation because he had spent the previous day 'shopping'.
A former first permanent secretary of HMRC said the taxman had a traffic-light system to warn the Government of any risks of giving a knighthood to someone with tax problems. Sir Edward Troup told the BBC: 'They don't decide whether the honour or the peerage is given but they give the information to those who do make the decision, who form their own judgment.'
There have been growing calls for ministers to publish their tax returns, as is standard practice for presidential candidates in the US.
But Mr Cleverly said: 'People's taxes are private matters. I know that as politicians we, quite rightly, are expected to have a higher level of disclosure than other people might do.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Nadhim Zahawi fights to stay in job amid row over tax affairs
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
