The Apprentice double exit sees Shannon Martin quit and Kevin D'Arcy fired | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
The Apprentice: Shannon Martin QUITS after deciding she 'doesn't need a business partner' - while Kevin D'Arcy is FIRED following a disastrous Bao Buns challenge
 22:14, 12 January 2023 
 08:01, 13 January 2023 
Thursday's episode of The Apprentice saw a shocking double departure, as Shannon Martin decided to leave the process before the results of the latest challenge.
The bridal boutique owner revealed that she opted to quit the show after deciding she 'loved' her business and 'doesn't need a partner,' despite the girls team winning this week's challenge.
Following her exit Kevin D'Arcy became the second candidate of the series to be fired by 
, after being told that was 'more focused on revenue than profit' during the disastrous Bao Buns challenge.
Two are gone! Thursday's episode of The Apprentice saw a shocking double departure, as Shannon Martin (left) quit the process before Kevin D'arcy (right) was fired by Lord Sugar
This week's episode sees the remaining candidates tasked with creating and selling Bao Buns after meeting 
Lord Sugar in Hutong in The Shard. 
The candidates had to manufacture two types of bun - selling savoury bao buns to the public and pitching a bespoke sweet bun to a corporate client.
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Pregnant Ferne McCann and Lorri Haines...
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: New Love Island host Maya Jama wears a...
EXCLUSIVE: Pregnant Molly-Mae Hague proudly showcases her...
'We've always got each other!': Spice Girls' Geri Horner,...
On the men's team, Bradley was decided as the team project manager, while Megan led the girls' team as they decided that she had 'the most experience in food'.
Megan's team went for a fish bao bun as they teamed basa and katsu sauce, while Bradley's opted for a more traditonal chicken and chorizo bun with a harissa paste. 
New challenge: Thursday's episode saw the two teams being tasked with creating and selling bao buns 
Briefing: The groups met Lord Sugar in Hutong in The Shard to be briefed on their challenge
As the boys went into negotiations, Bradley was quick to halve his price from £8 to £4 when meeting with their retailer, before dropping even further to £3.80 for 50 buns - as others worried they were underselling the product.
But going in with all guns blazing, the girls managed to sell theirs for £5 as they promised top notch quality from their product.
The two teams both had some trouble working out the ingredient quantities, as Joe questioned: 'Are we just guessing the amounts to put in?'
Leader: Megan was voted team leader for the girls, as she made the decision to go for a fish-based bao bun
Something different: Despite working in construction, Bradley was keen to take on the project managing role for this task as he showed interest in the food industry
Upon checking the buns after they were steamed, the boys then realised that they had been rolled too thin, as they decided : 'We just have to pick out the good ones'. 
Shannon's exit came before the two teams headed into the boardroom to learn the results of the latest challenge.
'But when you're given such an amazing opportunity, you're not ever going to turn that down, it's an opportunity of a lifetime that I'm forever grateful for. 
Something different: The teams were put to work as they decided on the ingredients going into the buns, as the girls decided on katsu basa buns
'During the bao bun task, I was there in the kitchen thinking ''Why am I here? What am I doing here making bao buns in a kitchen when I can't cook as it is?''. 
'I just really felt like I couldn't focus on the tasks because I was constantly thinking about what was going on at home. What's happening with the business? Is everything okay? I knew in the back of my mind that of course everything would be okay, the team are amazing. 
'But I'm a perfectionist, I need to know what's going on all the time and not being able to know how things were going on at home or what was happening at work was really hard for me. 
'The unknown is definitely not something I'm good at. The more I thought about it, the more I thought, ''Am I in here for the right reasons? Do I really want a business partner? Is this what I want? Do I want my life to change?'' and it really made me realise I love my life; I love the team and I love everything about my life. 
Meaty choice: The boys opted for a more traditonal chicken and chorizo bun with a harissa paste
After a bao making masterclass, the teams had to create their products in the kitchen
'I knew that I could potentially win the show, and did I really want to win and have my life completely changed? No, I didn't. I wasn't in there for the right reasons. 
'The other candidates are just amazing and there's so many amazing businesses there that I felt that they deserve to win. I've already got a very successful business. I just felt that there were more deserving people there than me and it was not right for me to stay in the process.
'The experience has given me the confidence to know that I can do it on my own, and since leaving the process I've set up Nori Ivy and I am now designing and manufacturing bridal gowns in the UK.'
Despite quitting the series, Shannon admitted that taking part in The Apprentice was a 'lifelong goal' for her, explaining: 'I applied about 10 years ago when I first came up with my business plan idea. I went to the interviews and spoke to a lovely lady who said, ''you've got a really good business idea, but you're not right for us at this time, but you should come back.'' 
Quantities: The two teams both had some trouble working out the ingredient quantities,  as Joe questioned: 'Are we just guessing the amounts to put in'
Disaster: Upon checking the buns after they were steamed, the boys then realised that they had been rolled too thin, as they decided : 'We just have to pick out the good ones'
'She really spurred me on to open the business. The business got going and I've never really been able to step away from it until this last year where I watched the first two episodes and thought, you know what, I'm going to do this. 
'I'm not going to sit here and keep saying I'm going to apply, then not do it or I could do a better job and then not actually show that I could. I've always wanted to do it and it's been a whirlwind since the point of applying to actually getting in.'
Having become such a die-hard fan of the show, Shannon admitted that getting to meet Lord Sugar was a 'daunting' experience.
She said: 'I remember sitting in the waiting room when we first met everybody and thinking ''Gosh it's enough meeting everybody and seeing them all here. Now I've got to walk through that door and he's there.'' 
'I think I caught a glimpse of his shadow walking in at one point and I was like ''Oh my god, he's behind those doors!'' It's so surreal, you feel like you're inside the TV and I didn't dare speak. It's amazing being able to meet him.'
Tense: Following the task, it was time for both teams to take to the boardroom to see who had managed to bag the win
Another one? After a win during week 1, the boys' team were hoping history would repeat itself in the boardroom
Asked who she would like to win the process, Shannon added: 'It's a hard one because there are a fair few people that I'd like to win, but if I have to pick one, I would pick Dani. 
'I just think that Dani's background, where she's come from, everything about Dani…I see Lord Sugar in her a lot of the time, and I do see a bit of me in her. 
'She's just so passionate about her business and I know she can do it if she absolutely focuses, and she will go all the way and do really well.'
The star also reflected on her favourite moments from the show, adding: 'There were quite a lot of memorable moments, I remember being on the plane to Antigua and I think we were sat behind Brad and Kevin. 
'They were playing Who Wants to be A Millionaire? and literally played it for eight hours solidly. 
'Honestly, we were all like ''Brad, just give it up!'' and he was like ''No, I'm not giving in'' and that's when I knew ''Ooh, you're one to watch because you're not giving in at this!'' He kept going and going and he couldn't win the £1 million. 
Out: But before a verdict was reached, Shannon decided to depart the process 
One down: Shannon was missing from the team as they were given the challenge results and profits from Lord Sugar
'Anyway, we kept chipping in and answering bits, then on the way back he sat down next to me, and Dani and he want ''I'm going to play Who Wants to be A Millionaire?'' and we said ''Oh, here we go. Another eight hours of this.'' 
'He put it on, he got through loads, we helped him with a load of questions. Got to the last question and got it right, the first time! He'd done eight hours on the way there!'
Shannon also gave fans a tease of her future business plans, adding: 'My business plan that I went on with was to design and manufacture wedding dresses, made in the UK. 
'There is bridalwear manufactured here, but not anywhere near as much as overseas, almost 80% of the dresses come from abroad. I have managed to set up 'Nori Ivy' on my own (named after my little girl) and we've found somebody to manufacture them in the UK, so Gaia Bridals in Wales are our manufacturers.
Congrats! It was a victory for the girls' team, who celebrated by heading out for an exclusive Chinese fine dining meal in Mayfair together as a reward from Lord Sugar
Not in it: Explaining her decision to quit the series, Shannon said: 'I think that going into the process, I was already having some doubts of whether I should go in or not
'Anna who has worked with me since day one is our designer and we've designed the collection together, had them made and they've just launched literally last week. It's fabulous!'
Following Shannon's departure, the two teams learned the results of their bao buns challenge, with Lord Sugar announcing that one of the boys team would be fired.
He then admitted that 'with regret' he had decided to fire Kevin, after he appeared to put more focus than revenue instead of profits.
Asked whether he has any regrets about his time on the process, Kevin said: 'I think I would have tried to put myself on the corporate team for the bao bun task, that’s where the ship sank, and I think those guys steered it straight for the iceberg. 
'I was fired because I wasn’t able to deploy the lifeboats quick enough. I clearly watched Titanic over Christmas! 
First loss: But it was a disappointing result for the boys, who took in less profits than the girls in total
Crunch time: It was back to the boardroom for Bradley, Avi and Kevin - with the latter ultimately was fired from the show
'As an accountant cooking is probably the furthest thing away from what I do day in, day out. Brad said he was a great cook, then put himself on the opposite team…'
Discussing his experience on the show, the accountant said: 'Looking back, you remember the best bits and the fun times. You remember how much you laughed and got on with the other candidates. 
'Overall, I think I met some amazing people. People I perhaps wouldn't meet in my normal life, and I think being one of the slightly older contestants (32), it was interesting to meet some of the younger candidates and understand what they're into and what their interests are.'
Discussing the challenge itself, Kevin added: 'The market was fun. We had this thing when we steamed a new set of buns, we'd have a countdown ''three, two one…fresh bao buns!''. 
Not looking good: The pressure was on Bradley as he attempted to talk his way out of the loss
'That stopped the entire market, and everyone would come over to see what was going on. 
'I think Greg in the chef suit was a favourite too. If he has a career in politics, that's definitely something he'll look back on and regret. But overall, he was the best man for the job. There were plenty of laughs along the way.'
Kevin also revealed that his next focus will be to tie the knot with his fiancée Alana on the Amalfi Coast in April.
He also revealed that he would like Bradley Johnson or Reece Donnelly to win the process.
Face off: Talking to the losing team, Lord Sugar questioned whether Project Manager Bradley was 'out of his depth' during the challenge
Fired: But in the end, the blame fell onto Kevin as he struggled to defend himself as the retail price was his idea - with the others thinking they could have sold the buns for more
Last week, Emma Browne became the first candidate eliminated from The Apprentice last week.
The senior account executive insisted she had 'no regrets' following her short time on the show after Lord Sugar booted her off for being disruptive in the team. 
Despite her driven work ethic, it wasn't enough to keep her as a prospect for Lord Sugar, as she was eliminated after just one week.
Lord Sugar said he didn't want to put with disruption within teams and so she had to go.  
Following her exit, Emma insisted during an interview that she 'applied because of my outstanding and profitable business idea.'
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Pregnant Ferne McCann and Lorri Haines...
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: New Love Island host Maya Jama wears a...
EXCLUSIVE: Pregnant Molly-Mae Hague proudly showcases her...
'We've always got each other!': Spice Girls' Geri Horner,...
However she appears to be leaving the show bearing no ill feeling, as she revealed  the experience 'was positive as can be'. 
She said: 'Everyone's there for the same reason so naturally, there were clashes etc but there were absolutely no hard feelings at all.'
The Apprentice continues on Thursday at 9pm on BBC One and BBC iPlayer.
THE APPRENTICE 2023: MEET THE CANDIDATES
Key info: Youngest candidate and believes that Lord Sugar’s investment will get him out of the “rat race” of city banking
He says: 'Some say I'm delusional, I prefer the term optimistic.'
Key info: Believes she deserves to win the programme because her business fills a 'huge gap' in the market, saying: 'It baffles me that no one has done it yet!'
She says: 'I think I’m a different kind of business owner, someone who is a lot more relatable to people.'
Key info: Laser focused on making her unique business idea a resounding success
She says: 'I am disgustingly competitive. I will go to any lengths to win this investment.'
Key info: The “James Bond of the business world” with a degree in Zoology
He says: 'If Lord Sugar wants to invest in a business to help save the ocean, one lip balm at a time, then I’m his guy.'
Key info: A former soldier who says he can 'sell to anyone' with the gift of the gab
'If Lord Sugar doesn’t pick me, then he’s missing a trick.' 
Occupation: Sweet shop and café owner
Key info: She says her business fills a gap in the market and has the potential to be nationally recognised.
She says: 'I think that no matter what situation I am thrown into, I will always give one hundred percent truth, even if it’s hard to hear.'
Occupation: Hair salon and academy owner
Key info: Describes herself as 'tenacious, fierce and determined' and says together with Lord Sugar they would be 'an absolute force to be reckoned with.'
She says: 'I’m always being compared to the Kim Kardashian of the business world because I’m doing business with a hint of glam.'
Key info: Wants to champion a varied representation of diverse women in the world of business
She says: 'I don’t need any friends in business. I am here to win this.'
Key info: Raised in a council house and worked hard to create business and warns other candidates to be 'wary'
He says: 'I am calm and collected, but if they do come at me? I will bite and I will sting, and I will leave my mark.'
Key info: Self-made business that turns over half-a-million after being made redundant just four years ago
He says: 'I have a business plan that will see us turn over seven figures after year three and who knows where else that could take us.'
Key info: Says she wants the investment opportunity because she wants to 'be mentored by the best to be the best'
She says: 'There's only one Denisha Kaur.'
Occupation: Owner of an online antiques marketplace
Key info: Previously worked as a professional cannon-firer in Malta
He says: 'I would say, a willingness to try different things and not being afraid to be slightly different is one of my biggest strengths.'
Key info: Started his water sports equipment business during lockdown, whilst working in his job in the financial services
He says: 'With Lord Sugar as my business partner, I know we can ride that wave into the UK and beyond...'
Key info: A gold medal-winning boxer and imaginative businesswoman
She says: 'I deserve Lord Sugar’s investment because I have given my blood, sweat and tears to my business.'
Key info: Is determined to become the first Scottish candidate to secure Lord Sugar's investment and claims to be the youngest CEO of a further education college in the UK
He says: 'I’m here to prove that Scotland is filled with forward-thinking entrepreneurs and that we are not in fact a haggis-eating, kilt-wearing nation.'
Key info: Is hoping to be the first business partner to bring Lord Sugar into the lucrative bridal industry.
She says: 'Lord Sugar needs to be my next business partner, so I can make him millions.'
Key info: Is a self-confessed 'perfectionist' who says his business will improve the quality of people's lives
He says: 'If people can’t buy into you, they’ll never buy anything from you.'
Occupation: Owner of online sweet business
Key info: Former flight attendant who started business in lockdown which grew into social media success
She says: 'I’ve travelled all over the world and am not afraid to take on a challenge.'
Share or comment on this article: 
The Apprentice double exit sees Shannon Martin quit and Kevin D'Arcy fired
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
