NSW Minister for Roads Natalie Ward mistakenly says drivers are given 10 demerit points | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Astonishing moment the minister for ROADS can't remember how many demerit points drivers have on their licence
Minister Natalie Ward said drivers have 10 demerit points
Unrestricted NSW drivers have a demerit limit of 13 points 
Labor party proposed good-behaviour demerit scheme
Drivers could have demerit point erased in just 12 months 
Antoinette Milienos For Daily Mail Australia
 05:46, 17 January 2023 
 02:46, 18 January 2023 
Australian drivers are rightly sick of revenue-raising governments continuing to fine them for minor speeding and other road infringements.   
And that's what makes the 
 Minister for Roads Natalie Ward's embarrassing on-air fail even worse. 
She stated drivers have 10 demerits they can accrue, and not 13. 
Ms Ward made the faux par while on 2GB's Ben Fordham breakfast show on Tuesday morning as she attempted to counter the Labor Opposition's proposed incentive scheme for well-behaved drivers.   
If NSW Labor wins the state election in two months' time, drivers will have one demerit points expunged from their license every 12 months if they maintain a clean driving record - instead of waiting for three years as they do now.  
Ms Ward attempted to label the scheme as 'lazy politics' being used to win votes and slammed Labor as endangering lives on the roads.
However, the minister came undone when Fordham said three years was a 'long time' to wait for demerit points to reset, and she stumbled in her response as she tried to recall how many such points can accrue before their licence is revoked. 
Minister for Metropolitan Roads of New South Wales Natalie Ward (pictured) mistakenly said NSW drivers are given 10 demerit points
'You got 10 points, I mean, you got, uh, you got 10 points there. That gives you plenty of room, plenty of warning to not do the wrong thing,' Ms Ward said. 
However the limit is not ten points; a driver with an unrestricted licence has 13 points to accrue, professional drivers have 14, provisional P2 licence are given seven, while a provisional P1 and learner licence have four.
Radical change to demerit points: Drivers could get 'good...
Aussie divides with his very controversial opinion on mobile...
Fordham seized on the stumble and quizzed Ms Ward about which NSW drivers have 10 demerit points.
'We start off with your 10 demerit points available,' Ms Ward answered a second time. 
The 2GB host then asked the minister: 'Isn't it 13?'   
'Yes, you get 13, although that differs,' Ms Ward said. 'If you're unrestricted you get 13, you get your provisional seven points and provisional P1 four points - it ranges.'
Fordham again beckoned the minister to identify which drivers are given 10 demerit points, before Ms Ward admitted her error.
'Sorry, I misspoke. You have 13 points to start with and you make sure you're driving is within the road laws,' Ms Ward said. 
Radio host Ben Fordham (pictured) quizzed Ms Ward on how many demerit points an NSW driver is allowed to accumulate, asking the minister 'isn't it 13?'
NSW Labor Leader Chris Minns proposed the incentive of a quicker expunging of points as a way to put safety - and not revenue raising - at the centre of road-rule enforcement. 
'Under Labor the rules are simple - drive safely, get a point back.' 
Ms Ward criticised the 'trite policy' for rewarding dangerous drivers and at the same time overlooking the victims and families affected by speed-related road fatalities.
'This is not about rewarding safe drivers at all... They're just making it easier for reckless drivers who break the law to get back on the road and I just don't think that is a sensible response,' Ms Ward said.  
'This isn't about rewarding safe drivers this is about telling dangerous drivers just wait 12 months and we will give you your point back and we're not okay with that. 
'We know that losing a life ruins a family. Losing your licence doesn't.'
It comes after the NSW Labor Party proposed an incentive scheme for well-behaved drivers, which would expunge a demerit point in just 12 months instead of the current three year wait period (pictured, NSW police speaking to driver)
Speeding is the single biggest contributor to death and injury on NSW roads, accounting for 41 per cent of road fatalities and 24 per cent of serious injuries each year. 
The NSW government recorded 288 road fatalities in 2022, up from the state's record 100-year low of 275 in 2021 when Covid lockdowns reduced traffic, but still well below the pre-pandemic average which neared one death every day.  
In a statement on January 2, Transport for NSW safety, environment and regulation deputy secretary Tara McCarthy said the government is committed to reducing road toll to zero by 2050.
Share or comment on this article: 
NSW Minister for Roads Natalie Ward mistakenly says drivers are given 10 demerit points
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
