DAILY MAIL COMMENT: PM's bold promise to deliver peace of mind | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey is slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as he clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Pictured: Two teenage boys who died in e-bike tragedy that sparked Cardiff riots - as residents survey 'warzone' aftermath and police force hits back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial tells how his life was 'destroyed' and demands answers over why it took so long for justice - as real killer is jailed for 29 years
Sophie makes surprise trip to Iraq to champion survivors of sexual violence
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil: How reclusive paedophile battled neck cancer and was fed through a tube after shameful fall from grace
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as cause of death is revealed
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
From beloved entertainer with royal honours, to convicted paedophile living as a recluse before his death: Rolf Harris's stunning fall from grace
Chilling moment paedophile Rolf Harris warned children about 'touching' and 'yes feelings and no feelings' in 'Kids Can Say No' sex abuse educational video filmed during period of his offending in 1980s
From giant letters H and S to the curious 'ERP': The hundreds of fading signs dating back to WWII that exist around Britain - but do YOU know what they mean?
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Rishi Sunak denies 'dithering' over Suella Braverman's fate as Home Secretary STILL waits to hear if she will face sleaze probe on 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Four arrested in connection with the hanging of an effigy of Vinicius Jnr from a bridge in January... with the Real Madrid star having again been subjected to racist attacks
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Black 'half-football-field-sized' triangular UFO is seen hovering over California military base for 10 minutes before vanishing in dramatic footage taken by Marines in 2021
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
DAILY MAIL COMMENT: PM’s bold promise to deliver peace of mind
 00:40, 5 January 2023 
 01:04, 5 January 2023 
’s five pledges, which strangely omitted the one about waging disastrous foreign wars?
Or Ed Miliband’s ‘Better Plan’ – six platitudes etched on a huge monolith, which was dubbed the ‘Edstone’ and ‘the heaviest suicide note in history’, after he crashed to humiliating defeat in 2015.
’s ‘kinder, gentler politics’, which saw his party descend into a ghastly swamp of bigotry and anti-Semitism.
With his ‘five pledges to deliver peace of mind’ yesterday, there’s no doubt Rishi Sunak identified the key problems facing Britain
Pro-Brexit Reform UK party vows to contest every...
Rishi Sunak and Jeremy Hunt's children have started 'regular...
So yes, it’s easy to be cynical. But these declarations are important. They give the public a good opportunity to gauge the calibre and priorities of those seeking their vote at the next election.
With his ‘five pledges to deliver peace of mind’ yesterday, there’s no doubt Rishi Sunak identified the key problems facing Britain – high inflation, low growth, ballooning debt, our crumbling NHS and uncontrolled migration.
We applaud him for levelling with the public about the scale of the task ahead and for his emphasis on delivery. However, the devil, as always, will be in the detail.
To grow the economy, for example, he must reduce the oppressive tax burden on both families and businesses. As every Tory knows, low taxes encourage initiative and stimulate productivity.
The ability to halve inflation, and to some extent to cut national debt, will depend at least partly on global forces. With luck, both aims are achievable.
Cross-Channel migration, however, is a fundamentally British problem. Better liaison with the French authorities and an agreement under which Albania takes back its citizens who enter this country illegally will help in finding a solution.
But the traffickers will not stop sending their boats here until their business model is broken.
That means a complete overhaul of our asylum system, so that claims are dealt with far more quickly – possibly in a third country such as Rwanda – and those not deemed genuine refugees are sent back.
The PM is said to be ‘under the bonnet’ trying to fix both the immediate crisis in the NHS and the service’s huge structural and managerial shortcomings
This will involve a tooth-and-nail fight with the asylum lobby and its lawyers, and probably changes to human rights and modern slavery legislation. We wish Mr Sunak success where so many have failed.
Then there is the NHS. He promises that waiting lists will fall but is vague about when. A detailed plan – thought to include the creation of ‘surgery hubs’ and greater use of private sector capacity – is expected this month. With the service at breaking point, it can’t come too soon.
The PM is said to be ‘under the bonnet’ trying to fix both the immediate crisis and the service’s huge structural and managerial shortcomings. Success or failure could make or break his political future.
He is fortunate in his principal opponent, the lacklustre Sir Keir Starmer. Given the Tories’ deplorable performance in 2022, a more dynamic Labour leader would already be out of sight.
But from his own pitch to the electorate, it’s obvious Sir Keir has no answers to any of the big issues of the day. And though he believes he can win the next election by default, recent close analysis has shown his seemingly unassailable poll lead to be extremely fragile.
Let’s not forget that Neil Kinnock was 16 points ahead in the weeks before the 1992 election and was crushed. Theresa May led by 21 points in the run-up to the 2017 election and lost her majority
Mr Sunak is an intelligent, articulate politician. If he can add to those qualities raw passion and a demonstrable impatience for change, he may yet prevail in 2024. He asks the electorate to judge him on results. They certainly will.
Share or comment on this article: 
DAILY MAIL COMMENT: PM's bold promise to deliver peace of mind
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
