Border Patrol union chief says Biden's visit to El Paso port of entry was a waste of time | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Border Patrol union chief says Biden's visit to El Paso port of entry, where thousands of people enter legally every day, was a waste of time: 'That's not where the issues are'
President Joe Biden visited the border city of El Paso, Texas, on Sunday
He spent a little over three hours on the ground, touring border facilities 
But representatives of Border Patrol agents said it was too little, too late 
Brandon Judd said Biden should not have spent most of his time at a port of entry
'We don't have problems at the port of entry,' he said 
Rob Crilly, Senior U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.Com
 02:38, 10 January 2023 
 09:08, 10 January 2023 
The head of the Border Patrol agents' union condemned President 
's visit to El Paso, saying he wasted his time visiting the city's port of entry, where tens of thousands of people enter legally from 
Biden spent more than three hours in the 
 city seeing how agents searched cars and luggage for contraband, as well was learning about services available for migrants. 
Brandon Judd, president of the National Border Patrol Council, said the 
 was not being felt at the official ports of entry.
'He did not speak with any rank and file agents,' said Judd. 
'He spent the vast majority of his time at the port of entry. We don't have problems at the port of entry. That's not where the issues are.'
Brandon Judd, president of the National Border Patrol Council, slammed President Joe Biden's visit to the southern border on Sunday, saying he did not get a full picture of the crisis
Immigrants sleep on the sidewalk near a migrant shelter on January 9, 2023, a day after the president's visit. He did not meet any migrants during his tour of border facilities
EXCLUSIVE This is what Biden didn't see at the border: Watch...
Texas Gov. Abbott hands Biden a frosty welcome letter as the...
Crisis, what crisis? El Paso clears migrant camps ahead of...
Biden arrives at border to see illegal immigration crisis...
Judd said the president would have learned little about the problems facing Border Patrol from visiting a port of entry, where tightly controlled lines of people wait with their identity cards or passports.
Biden stopped off in the Texas border city before heading to Mexico City for a summit of North American leaders.
It was his first visit to the southern border since becoming president. For two years Republican kept up a steady chorus of demands that he see for himself the strain caused by more than two million people trying to cross each year.
But if the president thought his whistlestop tour would silence the critics, he was quickly put straight.
Judd said his members thought it was too little, too late and were angry that Biden had not heard from rank-and-file agents who were responsible for patroling the border between entry points. 
'The only people that he met with in the in the Border Patrol were upper level management,' he said.
'If they don't tell him what he wants to hear, they're subject to be moved.
'He did not meet with any rank-and-file frontline agents.' 
Immigrants wade across the Rio Grande into El Paso, Texas on January 08, 2023 from Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, on the same day as Biden's visit
Biden was making his first visit to the southern border since becoming president. White House officials have been able to point to one other visit during his career in politics
It also emerged that law enforcement agents conducted a sweep of the city last week, taking migrants off the street, in what opponents said was an effort to give Biden a 'sanitized' tour.
The number of illegal crossings has also plunged in the past two weeks, easing conditions in El Paso. 
'Every single Border Patrol agent that I've spoken with is extremely frustrated and upset about what just took place yesterday,' said Judd. 
'They are upset that he was not willing to see what's actually going on. They're upset that 
'They're upset that him knowing that he was going to bring the mainstream media with them, that we all of a sudden doubled the number of agents in the field so the mainstream media would say: "Hey, there's nothing going on here, nothing to see.' 
Judd said Biden did not meet any migrants and the tour amounted to nothing more than 'optics.'
'He didn't tour any facilities where migrants would have been,' he said. 'So he didn't see anything. 
'He did not see any of the chaos that he's created, that he's caused.'
Just a short distance from where President Biden was taking a stroll along a 'sanitized' stretch of the border fence in El Paso, migrants continued to cross the Rio Grande river into the U.S.
In December, this area was filled with migrants sleeping on the streets. Bon Saturday, the same streets had no sign of the migrants who had camped there after a clearance operation
Biden arrived in El Paso in the early afternoon. 
From the airport, Biden visited the Bridge of the Americas — actually a series of bridges connecting El Paso with the Mexican city of Ciudad Juárez — for a close-up look at the border and a bustling port of entry.
He watched border officers demonstrate how they search vehicles for drugs, money and other contraband. 
A yellow Labrador was shown detecting fruit and meat in a vehicle, before a chocolate Labrador retrieved what appeared to be a package of drugs from another car.
As he toured the port of entry, a sign reading, 'Bienvenido a Mexico,' could be seen on the far side of the border.
From there he took a stroll along the side of the border fence, and on to the El Paso County Migrant Services Center to hear about the services that were offered to new arrivals. 
During his tour Biden was shown how border officers search vehicles for drugs, money and other contraband at the El Paso port of entry on the Bridge of the Americas
Biden was shown a fake battery that was used in an attempt to smuggle drugs into the U.S.
Abbott handed this letter to Biden at El Paso International Airport, ensuring a frosty welcome to Texas on Sunday as the president makes his first visit to the border since taking office
He asked how many people came through the center and was told about 300 to 500 a day, although it sometimes reached as many as 1000. 
His drive to the center, along closed-off roads, actually brought him close to people who that day had crossed the Rio Grande river on to U.S. soil. They cheered as his motorcade thundered past the other side of the border fence from him. 
But he would have been oblivious to their presence as his convoy raced past. 
Judd said Biden claimed before the visit he wanted to get a better understanding of the problems at the border.
'He didn't get any more of an understanding that what he had before he went, and again, that's politics,' he said.
'It was just optics. It was a photo shoot.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Border Patrol union chief says Biden's visit to El Paso port of entry was a waste of time
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
