Americans increasingly see Jan. 6 events at the US Capitol as a protest, not a coup or insurrection | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
'Patriot or terrorist?' Americans increasingly see Jan. 6 events at the US Capitol as a protest, not a coup or insurrection, and want to 'move on' from controversy
Was Jan. 6 a rebellion, a protest, an insurrection, a coup, or an uprising? 
For most Americans, it was a 'riot,' but rising numbers call it a 'protest'
The television pundit's preferred term, 'insurrection,' is losing traction
Event will not likely join ranks of seminal moments like Pearl Harbor and 9/11  
Have your say: vote in DailyMail.com's poll 
James Reinl, Social Affairs Correspondent, For Dailymail.Com
 19:24, 12 January 2023 
 19:24, 12 January 2023 
's supporters marched on the US Capitol on January 6, 2021, observers struggled to decide whether the spectacle amounted to an insurrection, a protest, a riot, or even a terrorist attack.
The words since used to describe Jan. 6 have been hotly contested. A University of Massachusetts Amherst 
 shows that, over time, the 
 as the language for the event is toned down.
The survey comes days after the second anniversary of the attack, President Joe Biden's 
, and as historians seek to place the event among other watersheds like 9/11 and Pearl Harbor.
Pollsters found that while 55 percent of their 1,000 respondents called Jan 6 a 'riot,' the share who speak of a 'protest' has risen steadily, from 43 percent in April 2021 to 49 percent now.
A University of Massachusetts Amherst Poll shows that, over time, the US public's attitude has softened as the language for the event is toned down
Over the same period, the share of those who call Jan 6 an 'insurrection' has dropped from 48 to 41 percent.
Terminology is key — 'insurrection' describes a violent bid to topple the US government, whereas 'protests' presents Trump's crowd exercising a right to disagree with the November 2020 presidential election results.
Tatishe Nteta, the university political scientist who oversaw the poll, noted that while 'many in the mainstream media and prominent elected officials' dubbed the event an insurrection, the public has gone its own way.
Sorry, Joe! The January 6 Capitol attack looks BETTER two...
The end is nigh! Four-in-ten people believe we're 'living in...
Republicans kickstart their investigations: House votes to...
Biden tears into 'sick insurrectionists' as he gives medals...
'The majority of Americans when reflecting on Jan. 6 have viewed the event as a 'riot' and the participants as 'rioters,' Nteta said in a statement.
As expected, Republicans are less critical of Jan. 6 rioters than are Democrats. They eschew terms like 'terrorists,' 'looters,' or 'mob,' in favor of positive phrases like 'protestors'.
The report comes after Biden marked the second anniversary of Jan. 6, paying tribute to the five police officers who died of various causes after the attack, and conferring honors on those who defended the Capitol.
Republicans are less critical of Jan 6 participants than are Democrats. They typically eschew terms like 'terrorists,' 'looters,' or 'mob,' in favor of more positive words, such as 'protestors'.
 Do you approve or disapprove of the Trump supporters taking over the Capitol building on January 6, 2021? 
 Do you approve or disapprove of the Trump supporters taking over the Capitol building on January 6, 2021? 
The president in harsh terms slammed a 'violent mob of insurrectionists' who 'assaulted law enforcement, vandalized sacred halls, hunted down elected officials, all for the purpose of attempting to overthrow the will of the people.'
It also follows months of congressional inquiries into the riot, which wrapped up last month with a call for Trump to be prosecuted. Some 950 people have been arrested, charged or prosecuted and others are under investigation.
One of the most high-profile trials against the Capitol rioters opened in Washington DC on Thursday, with leaders of the far-right 
 for their roles in the event.
Raymond La Raja, another political scientist who worked on the poll, said the committee hearings had not changed views on who was behind the riot — most people have blamed Trump since the outset. 
Trump supporters try to break through a police barrier at the US Capitol in Washington DC on January 6, 2021
Historians are trying to grapple with how the January 6, 2021, riot at the US Capitol ranks alongside the 9/11 terrorist attacks of 2001 or the 1941 Japanese strike on Pearl Harbor. 'The evidence so far suggests that January 6 will not join their ranks,' says scholar William Galston
Still, as the hearings dragged out, he noted a 'slight uptick in the past two years of voters saying 'it is time to move on' from the investigation, increasing from 44 percent to 50 percent.'
: instead of becoming less popular these past two years, the number of US adults who approve of the Capitol attack has risen markedly.
It grew from 9 percent in January 2021 to 20 percent now. Interestingly, the rise was more pronounced among Democrats.
William Galston, a political scientist, recently analyzed polls to weigh how the Jan. 6 riot would rank alongside other seminal moments, such as al-Qaeda's September 11, 2001, attacks, or Japan's strike on Pearl Harbor in December 1941.
'The evidence so far suggests that January 6 will not join their ranks,' said Galston, a scholar at the Brookings Institute think tank and Clinton-era White House aide.
'It is more likely that, to future generations, the day the US Capitol was stormed will serve as a reminder of the deep political divisions that characterized the current era of American politics.'
Pollsters this month found that instead of becoming less popular these past two years, the number of adults who approve of the Capitol attack has grown markedly
UMass Amherst Poll Finds Softening of Some Americans’ Views on the Events at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021 : UMass Amherst
Share or comment on this article: 
Americans increasingly see Jan. 6 events at the US Capitol as a protest, not a coup or insurrection
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
