Why Football Australia's life bans from the A-League aren't worth the paper they're written on | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
SAMI MOKBEL: Arne Slot will bring attacking, entertaining football back to Tottenham… but, Mr Levy, he likes to be in control of the ENTIRE footballing operation and is not afraid to jump ship
Vinicius Jnr's red card against Valencia is rescinded and Mestalla stand is ordered to be closed for FIVE matches, with the club fined £40,000 as Spanish FA FINALLY act on vile racist abuse of Real Madrid star
Operation FA Cup final: City and United assigned their own service stations amid fears of violence, with drivers warned about no-go zones as 160 coaches transport thousands to Wembley
Raheem Sterling one of a number of high-profile England stars whose squad place is in doubt as Gareth Southgate prepares to name his party for Euro 2024 qualifiers on Wednesday
Pep Guardiola insists he will NOT leave Manchester City this summer if they win the Treble, as the manager looks forward to the 'challenge' of defending their Premier League title
IAN HERBERT: As Steve Cooper saved Nottingham Forest, he had the class to embrace the club's past... do NOT be surprised if the cult hero succeeds Gareth Southgate as England manager
Arne Slot set to become new Tottenham manager, with talks to negotiate £10m Feyenoord exit set for Wednesday with Mino Raiola's heir Rafaela Pimenta - and his first target is a £40m star
Everton are among the few genuine giants of English football, writes lifelong supporter BRIAN VINER ahead of their final-day battle for survival. So now that the magic seems so irretrievably lost, fans are hurt, bewildered and angry
Dominant Man City are champions again but how can their Premier League rivals stop them next season? United need a striker, Arteta and Klopp must overhaul their midfields and Chelsea have to click
West Ham and Aston Villa are interested in Leicester's £50m-rated forward Harvey Barnes, with the England international unlikely to stay with the Foxes even if they avoid relegation
Cristiano Ronaldo rolls back the years with a powerful run and finish to seal stunning comeback for Al Nassr from 2-0 down to beat Al Shabab 3-2... as they remain three points behind leaders Al Ittihad with two games to go in Saudi Pro League
MIKE DICKSON: The bell's tolling for Rafael Nadal but don't despair... this may be the most thrilling French Open in years with Novak Djokovic and Iga Swiatek facing a host of contenders
Luton are planning to demolish and rebuild their Bobbers Stand in just ONE SUMMER if they secure promotion to the Premier League by beating Coventry in the play-off final on Saturday
Kim Min-jae has been nicknamed 'the monster' and hailed as the 'best centre back in the world' by his Napoli manager… after conquering Serie A the £56m-rated South Korean could soon complete a move to Man United
Bukayo Saka signs a new long-term contract at Arsenal with the winger set to stay at the Emirates until 2027... and he'll become one of the Gunners' highest earners on around £300,000-a-week
Wolves' saviour Julen Lopetegui will hold talks this week over summer transfer plans amid fears he could LEAVE... after hinting he was unaware of club's FFP problems when he joined last year
'Don't wear a white suit for Christ's sake!': Legendary ex-Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson takes a cheeky swipe at Liverpool during pep talk to Premiership finalists Sale
UEFA hold urgent talks on taking a stand against disgraceful racist abuse targeted at Real Madrid's Vinicius Jnr… despite a reluctance to act amid a feeling it is an internal issue for Spanish football
Is Vinicius Jnr ready to LEAVE Real Madrid after latest racism storm? What was chanted amid the disturbing scenes in Valencia? And could LaLiga do more? The big questions answered after young forward's fury
A Bristol City star Pep Guardiola described as an 'unbelievable player', an Italian midfielder Chelsea poached from Inter Milan and Man City's latest signing from Argentina: Six stars ready to light up the U20 World Cup in Indonesia
'I'm looking forward to going to battle with Davey again': Stuart Broad relishing bowling at 'fiery' David Warner in the Ashes after dismissing the Aussie opener 14 times... but says he needs to improve against Steve Smith and Marnus Labuschagne
England to field weakened attack against Ireland with pacemen Ollie Robinson and Jimmy Anderson set to sit out Lord's clash ahead of the first Ashes Test against Australia
ALVISE CAGNAZZO: Without Champions League football, EVERYONE at Juventus is for sale with free agent Adrien Rabiot and £80m Dusan Vlahovic both Premier League bound... but boss Massimiliano Allegri is too expensive to sack
Knollsy's going to Prague! West Ham's 'Angel of Alkmaar' is given a ticket for Europa Conference League final after club officials hailed his 'courage' in fighting off Dutch thugs
Why soccer life bans for pitch invaders aren't worth the paper they're written on: Football Australia faces mission impossible to keep Melbourne derby morons out of games
Many Melbourne Victory fans are facing life bans after Saturday's violent derby 
But how on earth can the sport make sure they never attend matches again? 
Daily Mail Australia has revealed just how authorities attempt to enforce them 
Kristy Williams For Daily Mail Australia
 03:10, 21 December 2022 
 08:04, 21 December 2022 
If you're wondering just how any life bans issued to those involved in the chaotic and violent scenes at Saturday's 
 will be enforced, good luck finding out. 
Harsh fines, sanctions and sanctions barring the guilty from all sporting events in Victoria have been floated by authorities after 'the darkest day in Australian football', and quite rightly so.
Melbourne City goalkeeper Tom Glover was left concussed and needing stitches for a severe facial laceration after more than 150 Victory fans stormed the pitch at AAMI Park.
Referee Alex King also suffered injuries in the scuffle, while a Channel 10 cameraman had earlier been hit with a flare. 
Melbourne Victory fans stormed the pitch in violent scenes at Saturday's A-League derby with Melbourne City. Many involved in the riot will face life bans - but how can they be enforced?
Football Australia boss says Victory could be forced to play...
Football Australia issues LIFETIME bans to football fans...
How football 'fans' called for a pitch invasion on Melbourne...
Hooligans who ruined Melbourne soccer derby in violent pitch...
The frightening scenes led many players, pundits and supporters to call for anyone involved to never attend a football match in Australia ever again.
Acting Victoria Police superintendent Jason Goddard said those involved in Saturday night's violent pitch invasions could face life bans under the state's Major Events Act.
But what does that actually mean?
When Daily Mail Australia attempted to discover how exactly life bans are enforced, it took several hours to find out who exactly is responsible for ensuring sanctioned fans are kept out of grounds.
Football Australia and Victoria Police provided conflicting information, and there were no obvious answers in the Major Events Act 2009 legislation.
Victoria Police were looking for information on this fan in a balaclava seen throwing a bottle at officers on Saturday
The game's governing body indicated that if life bans were handed out to those involved in the derby scenes, information on how they would be enforced could then be given to media. 
'Should Football Australia issue any life bans following the incidents of Saturday night, this will be communicated to media by way of a media release, including additional information such as enforcement,' a spokesperson for the organisation said. 
However, when life bans for the so-called 'Bucket Man' and one other fan were confirmed in a press release on Tuesday night, no information on how exactly the measures would be enforced was forthcoming.  
Fans could be seen swinging from the goalposts during the violent pitch invasion, which has been described as 'Australian football's darkest day'
Victoria Police, on the other hand, indicated either Football Australia, Australian Professional Leagues (APL, which runs the A-League) or a venue, like AAMI Park, would be responsible for enforcement. 
'The actual banning is usually up to the sporting body or venue but we will obviously liaise with these groups,' a police spokesperson told Daily Mail Australia. 
AAMI Stadium, which comes under the Melbourne and Olympic Parks Trust (M&amp;OP), indicated to Daily Mail Australia they enforced life bans, with information on said bans passed down from the APL.    
'The APL is the responsible body for decision on bans and life-bans,' they said. 
'A list of banned individuals is provided to M&amp;OP by the league ahead of each match at the venue.
One fan, nicknamed 'Bucket Man' has been given a life ban by Football Australia. Daily Mail Australia does not suggest that he was responsible for hitting City goalkeeper Tom Glover in the face with the bucket
The APL were contacted by Daily Mail Australia and indicated they would provide a comment. More than 24 hours later, the organisation hasn't indicated how they pass on information about life bans to those responsible for enforcement.
All of which raises the question: how can a venue like AAMI Park possibly check up to 30,000 people to see if any are banned for life?
Tickets can be bought by someone else and given to a friend who has a life ban.
Personnel in the stadium will see tens of thousands of people streaming past them, and are expected to find a needle in a haystack.
Fans, such as this one Victoria Police are searching for, can disguise themselves with hoodies and sunglasses, making detecting those on life bans very difficult
And that's before you take into account the fact banned fans could wear hoodies, sunglasses and a do a myriad of other things to their personal appearance to evade detection.
So, is a life ban worth the paper it is written on? 
A-League Women's goalkeeper Tegan Micah, indicated on Twitter that perhaps it isn't.
The Matildas star copped the wrath of Victory fans when she had glass bottles and vile abuse thrown at her while she was keeping for Melbourne City last year. 
She referenced the incident on Twitter on Saturday in the aftermath of the mayhem at AAMI Park.
Former Melbourne City goalkeeper Teagan Micah was targeted by glass bottles hurled by Melbourne Victory supporters during the game at Epping Stadium in January 2021 - and claimed those involved had already received life bans
'Fans throwing GLASS BOTTLES at us and all I got was an 'apology' and notice that the fans were ALREADY BANNED FOR LIFE &amp; STILL GOT IN WITH GLASS BOTTLES!,' she tweeted.
'Melbourne Victory continues to ALLOW their fans to get away with this behaviour! It's a disgrace!!'
With Football Australia keen to stamp out violent or discriminatory behaviour, life bans have been handed out more and more, particularly in the wake of the disgusting neo-Nazi salutes (among other offensive things) by Sydney United supporters at an Australia Cup match in October. 
Flares being lit and thrown in stadiums is another bugbear of football authorities, and was a key factor in Saturday's violence escalating. 
Fans throwing lit flares onto the field has become a huge problem in Australian football - and police are seeking information on this man over the illegal behaviour
Football Australia boss James Johnson conceded as much when he addressed the media on Sunday morning, although he continued to insist it was an one-off event more than a trend in the game Down Under. 
'There is an issue with flares entering stadiums that we do need to look at,' he said in the press conference.
'This does not happen at local football, it doesn't happen at national team level, it doesn't happen at the NPL [National Premier Leagues] level what we saw last night, it hasn't happened at the other A-League games.
Melbourne City goalkeeper Tom Glover had a flare thrown near him during Saturday's derby, and then threw it back in the stands
It was a brave statement given the reputation football currently holds in Australia, and the many years of A-League derbies, in particular, that have been marred by flare incidents.
Add to that the fact many people have been injured at Socceroos viewing sites in Melbourne, Brisbane and Sydney and a strong case can be made that this isn't simply an A-League problem. 
In fact, just days earlier at a game between the Wanderers and Phoenix, flares were let off both inside and outside the stadium. 
Western Sydney Wanderers fans light and throw flares in the club's recent clash with Wellington at WIN Stadium
Many flares could also be seen in the crowd during the Sydney FC vs Melbourne Victory game in May earlier this year
In an interview on Wednesday morning, Johnson appeared to be confident banned fans would never been seen at a football stadium in Australia. 
But again, he provided absolutely no information on how they would stop said fans.
'There are tools available within the football structures both at FIFA and also Football Australia that we can use to ensure that the individuals that we ban not only no longer participate in football from a playing point of view, but also don't enter stadiums to watch football matches,' Johnson said on Channel 9's Today Show. 
'They're out and they're not coming back.'
Football Australia's official code of conduct for supporters, and the terms of condition for attending A-League games, simply outlines what behaviour or things are banned.
Then at the end of the 11 brief Code of Behaviour points is a sentence saying those in breach 'may' be banned. 
Fans were clouded in orange flares on Saturday, before storming the pitch
Any person who does not comply with this Spectator Code of Behaviour or who otherwise causes a disturbance may be evicted from the Venue and may be banned from attending future Matches.' 
It's a never-ending battle trying to find out how. 
It is much easier to find out information about how the UK and USA enforce life bans; and organisations like the English Premier League (EPL) and Major League Baseball (MLB) even openly admit it is certainly not a foolproof process.
Only incredibly expensive facial recognition software - something not yet used at sporting grounds, even in the English Premier League - is a method coming even close to foolproof. 
All 20 EPL clubs banded together in 2020 to try and combat a surge in poor fan behaviour.
Brazilian superstar Richarlison carried this flare that had been thrown onto the field while he was playing for Everton against Chelsea in May. The EPL has recently tried to enforce a crackdown on poor fan behaviour
Security intelligence, cross-referencing names on match tickets, picture distribution and sharing of information across all clubs and venues in the league, while a comprehensive database on banned fans in kept.
In the USA, banned fans who enter venues faced being arrested for trespassing, while NFL supporters who are banned from one club's stadium won't be allowed in another team's. Information is readily shared across organisations.  
Yet in Australia, not even the police and major sporting bodies can agree or provide information on how life bans are enforced.
Clearly, they aren't worth the paper they are written on. 
Football Australia's Spectator Code of Behaviour
Spectators attending a Match or otherwise involved in any activity staged or sanctioned by Football Australia, Australian Professional Leagues, Member Federation, District Association or Club must: 
1. Respect the decisions of Match Officials and teach children to do the same. 
2. Never ridicule or scold a child for making a mistake. 
3. Respect the rights, dignity and worth of every person regardless of their age, gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, ability, race, colour, religion, language, politics, national or ethnic origin. 
4. Never use violence in any form towards another person including fellow spectators, Players or Match/Team Officials (including Coaches). 
5. Not engage in acts of discrimination, harassment or abuse towards any person, including: a. the use of obscene or offensive language and/or gestures; b. the incitement of hatred or violence. 
6. Comply with all Terms of Admission including provisions relating to security screening, intoxication, and items that are prohibited by law or restricted by policy from being brought into the Venue. 
7. Not display, or attempt to display, within the Venue any offensive or inappropriate banners (whether in English or a foreign language) or any other sign, flag, emblem or insignia which may vilify a person on the basis of their age, gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, ability, race, colour, religion, language, politics, national or ethnic origin or which may offend or incite hatred or violence, as determined by Football Australia or the relevant Competition Administrator. 
8. Never throw missiles, projectiles or objects of any description at Players, Match Officials or fellow spectators. 
9. Not obscure the view of fellow spectators. 
10. Not enter or attempt to enter the field of play or playing arena without lawful authority. 
11. Refrain from any disorderly conduct or conduct that may injure the reputation and goodwill of Football Australia and the code of Football generally. 
Any person who does not comply with this Spectator Code of Behaviour or who otherwise causes a disturbance may be evicted from the Venue and may be banned from attending future Matches.
Share or comment on this article: 
Why Football Australia's life bans from the A-League aren't worth the paper they're written on
SAMI MOKBEL: Arne Slot will bring attacking, entertaining football back to Tottenham&hellip; but, Mr Levy, he likes...
Vinicius Jnr's red card against Valencia is rescinded and Mestalla stand is ordered to be closed for FIVE...
EXCLUSIVE: Operation FA Cup final - Manchester City and United assigned their own service stations amid...
Raheem Sterling one of a number of high-profile England stars whose squad place is in doubt as Gareth...
Pep Guardiola insists he will NOT leave Manchester City this summer if they win the Treble, as the manager...
IAN HERBERT: As Steve Cooper saved Nottingham Forest, he had the class to embrace the club's past... do NOT...
Arne Slot set to become new Tottenham manager, with talks to negotiate &pound;10m Feyenoord exit set for Wednesday...
Everton are among the few genuine giants of English football, writes lifelong supporter BRIAN VINER ahead of...
Dominant Man City are champions again but how can their Premier League rivals stop them next season? United...
West Ham and Aston Villa are interested in Leicester's &pound;50m-rated forward Harvey Barnes, with the England...
Cristiano Ronaldo rolls back the years with a powerful run and finish to seal stunning comeback for Al Nassr...
MIKE DICKSON:&nbsp;The bell's tolling for Rafael Nadal but don't despair... this may be the most thrilling French...
Luton are planning to demolish and rebuild their Bobbers Stand in just ONE SUMMER if they secure promotion...
Kim Min-jae has been nicknamed 'the monster' and hailed as the 'best centre back in the world' by his Napoli...
Bukayo Saka signs a new long-term contract at Arsenal with the winger set to stay at the Emirates until...
Wolves' saviour Julen Lopetegui will hold talks this week over summer transfer plans amid fears he could...
'Don't wear a white suit for Christ's sake!': Legendary ex-Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson takes a...
EXCLUSIVE: UEFA hold urgent talks on taking a stand against disgraceful racist abuse targeted at Real...
Is Vinicius Jnr ready to LEAVE Real Madrid after latest racism storm? What was chanted amid the disturbing...
A Bristol City star Pep Guardiola described as an 'unbelievable player', an Italian midfielder Chelsea...
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
