DeSantis probe of Florida college 'diversity' spending set to uncover wasted clandestine millions | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Diversity dollars: DeSantis' crackdown on 'inclusion' and CRT spending at Florida colleges to expose the millions wasted on clandestine sector of DIVERSICRATS, probes elsewhere suggest
At North Carolina, Ohio, and Michigan schools, diversity hires cost millions
University of Michigan 'diversicrats' alone earn $18 million each year
MU even has a  full-time diversity staffer in its arboretum
Critics slam a box-ticking exercise that does little to help minority students
Others bash DeSantis for undercutting the 'freedom to run DEI programs' 
James Reinl, Social Affairs Correspondent, For Dailymail.Com
 20:24, 6 January 2023 
 20:35, 6 January 2023 
's order for state universities to disclose their 
, saying it will lift the lid on millions of dollars of wasted public funds every year.
Analysts at The James G. Martin Center for Academic Renewal, the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) and other think tanks told DailyMail.com that spending on 'diversity, equity, inclusion' (DEI) schemes at public universities was out of control.
Studies from public colleges in North Carolina, Ohio, and Michigan have shown an explosion of DEI jobs in recent years — with some earning up to $500,000 per year — costing taxpayers tens of millions of dollars.
DEI staff now make up more than 3.4 positions for every 100 tenured professors, according to nationwide research by The Heritage Foundation, stoking fears of a ballooning sector that some say is no more than a 
Jenna Robinson, president of the Martin Center, said DeSantis' order would expose much more about DEI largesse than is known now, as it requires a tally of all costs — not just salaries — as well as spending on Critical Race Theory (CRT) schemes.
'Although some work has already been done to expose the growing DEI staff costs at universities across the country, Florida's investigation will be by far the most comprehensive,' Robinson told DailyMail.com.
'Higher education is in dire need of this kind of transparency.'
DeSantis, a Republican, wants public Florida universities to disclose all government funds spent toward programs, classes and other initiatives related to DEI and CRT, part of his efforts to zero-in on education in his second term as governor.
Americans BACK the end of affirmative action and want race...
Secret emails lay bare Virginia parents' fury at schools:...
Nearly all of America's schoolkids have studied or picked up...
Florida schools come top and New York and Washington, D.C.,...
 that receive state funding will have to provide a list of diversity and race-related programs, which includes the staff hired to teach or advise these groups or classes, according to a memo.
DEI and CRT are front lines in America's culture wars, with liberals saying they help address the nation's racist past, and conservatives slamming a lefty elite's bid to reshape society by the back door.
According to Robinson, DeSantis' probe is broader than those seen elsewhere, including her 
 of the University of North Carolina System of 16 colleges, which uncovered more than $12 million spent on DEI staff salaries.
A University of South Florida student protesting against the lack of black student enrollment at the school in Tampa in July 2020. A debate rages over whether hiring 'diversity' administrators gets more minorities into schools   
Prospective students and their families take a tour of the campus of the University of Central Florida last February. Gov DeSantis wants the state's public schools to reveal details about their spending on diversity and CRT schemes  
This included 11 DEI administrators at UNC-Chapel Hill and NC State University earning more than $100,000 per year. The schools' 30-strong diversity team was growing and 'would soon include deans and associate deans,' researchers said. 
 by The College Fix in 2018 lifted the lid on 88 diversity-related administrators, including deans, provosts, and directors, costing some $7.3 million in salaries and benefits.
Mark Perry, an AEI economist, probed salary data at the University of Michigan a public school in Ann Arbor, and found that the number of diversity jobs had jumped from none in 2003 to 142 last year.
Nearly 100 of them earn more than $100,000 per year, said Perry, including vice provost for diversity Tabbye Chavous, on a $380,000 base salary. Total compensation for the college's 'diversicrats' is some $18 million a year, he added.
The school's botanical garden and arboretum even has a full-time diversity and inclusion specialist, said Perry, who warned against 'wasteful' spending on 'misguided goals of social justice, racial justice, and gender justice.'
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis speaks to the crowd after being sworn in to begin his second term earlier this month. He has vowed to zero-in on education
'Those resources could be better spent by reducing tuition instead of feeding new layers of costly administrative bloat that end up getting passed along to students in the form of higher tuition and fees,' Perry told DailyMail.com.
In its own tally of 65 US public colleges, the 
 that Michigan University had the highest proportion of diversity-related staff — 15 for every 100 tenured scholars, well above the average of 3.4.
The conservative National Association of Scholars in two reports last year warned against DEI ideas 
 and expanding nationally from humanities departments to those teaching 
Miami students cheer in the stands during a college football game in November, 2022. Gov DeSantis wants to spotlight how much money public colleges spend on 'diversity' and CRT programs 
Opinions on the value of DEI teams are varied. 
Anthony Hennen, a former managing editor at the Martin Center, said colleges hire DEI staffers and develop programs as 'risk-averse legal strategy' to ward off lawsuits over biased or racist practices.
'It's a check-the-box approach,' Hennen told DailyMail.com. 
'I don't think it does much to actually boost diversity: simply taking that DEI money and sending it out as scholarships would probably do more.' 
Others say DEI and CRT — an academic focus on the legacy of slavery — are necessary to help America overcome the racism left behind from slavery and other deep-rooted inequalities.
Angie Nixon, a Democrat representative in Florida, said DeSantis' probe was putting the 'freedom to run DEI programs at public colleges and universities ... on the radar for destruction.'
'Nothing is safe, and it's sickening,' Nixon tweeted.
A memo from Florida's budget director Chris Spence set a January 13 deadline for universities to detail spending on classes, programs and staffing related to diversity, equity, inclusion (DEI) and critical race theory (CRT)
CRITICAL RACE THEORY: WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
The fight over critical race theory in schools has escalated in the United States in recent years.
The theory has sparked a fierce nationwide debate in the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests around the country over the last year and the introduction of the 1619 Project.
The 1619 Project, which was published by the New York Times in 2019 to mark 400 years since the first enslaved Africans arrived on American shores, reframes American history by 'placing the consequences of slavery and the contributions of black Americans at the center of the US narrative'.
The debate surrounding critical race theory regards concerns that some children are being indoctrinated into thinking that white people are inherently racist or sexist.
Those against critical race theory have argued it reduces people to the categories of 'privileged' or 'oppressed' based on their skin color.
Supporters, however, say the theory is vital to eliminating racism because it examines the ways in which race influence American politics, culture and the law.
Ohio State employs 88 diversity-related staffers at a cost of $7.3M annually | The College Fix
Diversity University: DEI Bloat in the Academy | The Heritage Foundation
Press Release: Diversity, Equity, And Inclusion Take Over the University of Tennessee, Report Finds by National Association of Scholars | NAS
New Study Tracks Rise of DEI in STEM Departments, Associations, Grants, and Literature by National Association of Scholars | NAS
Ron DeSantis orders Florida universities to report funds spent on critical race theory | Daily Mail Online
Share or comment on this article: 
DeSantis probe of Florida college 'diversity' spending set to uncover wasted clandestine millions
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
