Members of Armed Forces are left in mould-ridden military homes without heating for WEEKS  | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
How our heroes are being left to freeze in squalor: Members of Armed Forces and their families are issued sleeping bags and sleep in their coats as they are left in mould-ridden military homes without heating for WEEKS
 Troops and their families are freezing without heating or hot water
 Pinnacle was given a £144million contract to manage service family homes
 Parents stressed children developed viral infections while sleeping in their coats
 Maintenance boss stays nice and cosy in £2m mansion
Mark Hookham For The Mail On Sunday
 22:01, 17 December 2022 
 21:53, 18 December 2022 
Hundreds of troops and their families are freezing without heating or hot water this weekend as they desperately wait for repairs in rundown military homes. 
Sleeping bags have been handed out to soldiers, their partners and children as they shiver in Army homes, many of which have had no heat or hot water for weeks.
Private contractor Pinnacle faces mounting questions over the scandal after it was given a £144million contract in March to manage Britain’s 49,000 service family homes. 
The company, whose boss earns £320,000 a year, responded to the crisis by setting up an emergency helpline – with an automated message that advised desperate callers to heat their pipes with hot water bottles or warm flannels. 
Hundreds of troops and their families are freezing without heating or hot water this weekend as they desperately wait for repairs in rundown military homes
Pinnacle faces mounting questions over the scandal after it was given a £144million contract in March to manage Britain’s 49,000 service family homes but homes are still suffering from mould and damp
Britain's heroes forced to live in squalor: Young Army...
British Army is 'only big enough to tootle around at home'...
But families said they spent hours desperately trying to call for help as harrowing stories emerged of young children developing viral infections and sleeping in their coats in subzero temperatures. 
Last night Defence Secretary Ben Wallace vowed to intervene to deal with the crisis. He tweeted: ‘I have directed those responsible for accommodation services to up their game. 
I shall be speaking to all the chief executives directly early next week.’ A senior defence source called the crisis a disgrace, while the Ministry of Defence admitted that it was unacceptable and sent letters of apology to every family in military accommodation. 
With the cold snap biting, soldiers were allowed to sign out extra sleeping bags for are no appointments for days.’ 
DESPAIR: Captain Will Matthews, of Frimley Park Cadet Training Centre, Surrey 
RUINED: A mouldy ceremonial jacket kept in Capt Matthews’s home. Inset left: His baby’s cot in a bedroom without heating
families said they spent hours desperately trying to call for help as harrowing stories emerged of young children developing viral infections and sleeping in their coats in subzero temperatures
BUT maintenance boss is nice and cosy in his £2m mansion 
By CAMERON CHARTERS and NATASHA LIVINGSTONE FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY
HOME COMFORT: Pinnacle CEO Peregrine Lloyd, below, and left, his stately pile in Oxfordshire
In contrast to the squalid conditions endured by military families, Pinnacle boss Peregrine Lloyd lives in a £2million stately home in a quaint country village in Oxfordshire. 
The Grade II-listed house was built in 1710 and is spread across four storeys with immaculate landscaped lawns. 
Mr Lloyd, a former City fund manager, is paid £320,000 a year to run Pinnacle, which won an MoD contract to look after military homes.
Answering the door yesterday, Mr Lloyd apologised for his firm’s failings after hundreds of soldiers and their families were left shivering without heating or hot water. 
He said: ‘There are massive delays in our call centre. 
We have gone from 15 people to 65 people in the last six weeks just to try and deal with the volume. 
‘Fingers crossed we are hoping this problem will go away. It is awful the conditions people have to live in. 
'I cannot say that the quality of the service has been brilliant because it hasn’t been.’ 
Pinnacle boss Peregrine Lloyd lives in a £2million stately home in a quaint country village in Oxfordshire
He claimed that he had ‘personally’ paid for the electricity bills of families who contacted him directly.
When asked whether he would put up any of the affected families in his large home, he said that he had ‘no capacity’ to house families. 
‘I can’t do it for 49,000 people, but I do really care. This house? You wait until all my family turn up at Christmas. There isn’t any capacity. 
‘I had thought about that but I have got to work within the rules of the contract,’ he said. 
Mr Lloyd graduated from Exeter University with a degree in Economics and Politics. 
He started working as a fund manager in the City but left to start a property services business in the early 1980s.
In the late 1990s he began managing houses for several councils across Britain, and Pinnacle continues to look after social housing in several areas of the country. 
The company also works within the private rented sector.
Pinnacle’s contract was supposed to end decades of sub-standard conditions. Last month it was reported that nearly a third of UK military homes needed repairs.
 Sources said families with ‘total loss of heating’ (with a temporary solution provided) were eligible for a £1 voucher per 24 hours. 
The Ministry of Defence said: ‘It is unacceptable some personnel and their families are not receiving the level of accommodation ser­vices they deserve. 
Across the 46,197 homes managed in the contract, some are experiencing issues due to the sharp drop in temperatures. 
‘We are working quickly with our contractors to resolve heating and water problems, on top of spending tens of millions to upgrade thousands of homes in the last year.’
Pinnacle said: 'Our role is to take calls from families, gather information about the repair and then raise the job and make an appointment with the family where possible.
'These are then transferred to the relevant MOD maintenance provider to action.
'The recent period of prolonged cold weather has resulted in a significant increase in calls to our National Service Centre, and average call wait times have lengthened.
'We apologise to families for the inconvenience this is undoubtedly causing. We have increased resourcing to meet heightened demand and are bringing in more staff to help drive down wait times.'
Families at military accommodation in Colchester, while naval training base HMS Collingwood, in Hampshire, closed early for Christmas after having no heating or hot water for a week. 
Meanwhile recruits at RAF Halton in Buckinghamshire were given ‘Arctic sleeping bags’ after central heating broke, with no hope of repair before they graduate next week. 
The crisis comes as military personnel are being asked to cover for striking workers, including ambulance and border staff. 
On Friday Felicity Mercer, wife of Minister for Veterans’ Affairs Johnny Mercer, appealed for families to contact her for help. At least 70 emailed in 24 hours. 
She said. ‘People are sending me screenshots where some have been on hold to Pinnacle for up to seven hours. 
They are desperate.’ Army Captain Will Matthews, who served in Bosnia, Iraq and Afghanistan, posted a video of his baby sleeping in his service home riddled with damp and mould. 
He tweeted: ‘Tired of living like this... I’ve been reporting it since July to get it fixed in time for winter. Yet here we are.’ 
Another young family in southern England said that they’d had no heating since last Monday. 
The mother, whose children are seven and two, said her youngest had developed croup and needed an inhaler every four hours. ‘It’s heartbreaking,’ she said. ‘My children are struggling. 
They’ve been up all night coughing.’ She said they spent days trying to contact Pinnacle then, on Friday, after being on hold for hours, they were promised a heater would be sent by 5pm and an official would look at their heating on Monday. 
A senior military source said hundreds were affected, adding: ‘It’s the contractor and lack of investment over years. It’s a f****** disgrace we continue to spend so much money on defence and treat people like this. 
I haven’t seen it as bad as this before, with babies getting ill.’ 
Families with young children at Sandhurst military academy in Berkshire were struggling with broken boilers last week, including one mother with a disabled young son who said she could not get a repair appointment for four days. 
One woman said: ‘We’re at breaking point. Calls go unanswered and even if they are, you’re told there 
Share or comment on this article: 
Members of Armed Forces are left in mould-ridden military homes without heating for WEEKS 
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
