Westminster and Holyrood clash over Scotland's new gender rules | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Defiant Scots tell Westminster they will fight it over bid to block their new gender rules: SNP says it will push through Sturgeon's law that would help rapists and allow 16-year-olds to legally transition without parental consent
MSPs passed the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill by 86 to 39 today
Cries of 'shame on you' and applause saw the parliament briefly get suspended
 The Bill makes it easier to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) from 16
But critics say it could represent a 'threat to women' from transgender women
They say violent male sex offenders can transition and stand trial as women 
David Wilcock, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline
 15:08, 22 December 2022 
 11:16, 23 December 2022 
The UK and Scottish governments have clashed over Scotland's new 
 rules, just passed by Holyrood, after Westminster minister threatened to block the controversial bill. 
The SNP vowed to push through First Minister Nicola Sturgeon's law which will remove the need for a medical diagnosis of gender dysphoria to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC). 
MSPs voted to pass the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill by 86 votes to 39 earlier today.
It also lowers the minimum age for applicants to 16 and drops the time required for an applicant to live in their acquired gender from two years to three months - six for those aged 16 and 17 - though with a three-month reflection period.
Supporters of the For Women Scotland and the Scottish Feminist Network take part in a demonstration outside the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh
Women's rights campaigners protested as the Scottish parliament conducted the final vote on the Gender Recognition Reform Bill
Scotland's new gender laws: What is the Gender Recognition...
Nicola Sturgeon 'personally blocks law change that would...
MSPs embarked on intense debate on the Bill this week, spending more than 24 hours on the consideration of amendments and final vote. 
But the passage of the Bill does not clear its path to the statute book, with Scottish Secretary Alister Jack now able to legally challenge the law if he believes it impacts on the UK, while private groups are also able to take legal action should they wish.
UK equalities minister Kemi Badenoch has raised concerns about the impact of the Bill on the rest of the country.
In a statement after the final vote, Mr Jack said the UK Government will consider action in the Supreme Court.
'We share the concerns that many people have regarding certain aspects of this Bill, and in particular the safety issues for women and children,' he said.
'We will look closely at that, and also the ramifications for the 2010 Equality Act and other UK-wide legislation, in the coming weeks - up to and including a Section 35 order stopping the Bill going for Royal Assent if necessary.'
 was greeted with cries of 'shame on you' today as a controversial law on 
A women rights protestor reacts after the bill passes, by lifting up her skirt and revealing what appears to be a fake vagina
Supporters of the For Women Scotland and the Scottish Feminist Network outside Holyrood
A protester dressed as a suffragette stands outside parliament during the protest against the bill
One protester's humorous placard likened First Minister Nicola Sturgeon to the Grinch
Joanna Cherry MP speaks outside Holyrood against the Gender Reform Bill passed earlier today
The Scottish parliament was suspended by a demonstration in the public gallery as MSPs passed 
the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill by 86 to 39 this afternoon.
It was the second protest of the day, with a demonstrator earlier shouting that 'no one is listening to women'. 
The Bill makes it easier to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) on the basis of self-declaration and removing the need for a gender dysphoria diagnosis for anyone aged 16 or older.
But opponents of the Bill have said it could endanger women and girls and put single-sex spaces at risk.
They also fear violent male sex offenders who transition, including rapists and child abusers, will be able to force victims to use their female pronouns in court, increasing their trauma.
Demonstrators organised by the For Women Scotland group gather outside Scottish Parliament as the final vote took place
No To Self ID demo outside the Scottish Parliament as the final vote of the Gender Recognition Reform Bill
A bid to block this loophole by inserting a clause ensuring those on the sex offenders' register cannot obtain a GRC failed by just one vote last night, after three days of furious debates.
Scottish Conservative equalities spokeswoman Rachael Hamilton said: 'We all support improving the experience for trans people but that should never come at the expense of the safety of women and girls, and their hard-won rights.
'But Nicola Sturgeon's Bill – in the form that it has been passed – does put their safety at risk.'
Tonight Alister Jack, the Secretary of State for Scotland, said he was examining whether to block the legislation.
 Supporters of the For Women Scotland rally outside Holyrood earlier today as the vote took place
There were cries of 'shame on you' as MSPs passed the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill by 86 to 39 this afternoon, and the parliament was briefly suspended
Today Tory leader Douglas Ross laid blame for its failure directly at Ms Sturgeon's door, saying: 'The government stopped that amendment by a single vote. The First Minister's own vote means a man standing trial for rape can claim they're a woman and force a victim to call them ''she.'' Why did the First Minister vote for this?'
SNP Minister Ash Regan speaks at the For Women Scotland and the Scottish Feminist Network demonstration outside the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh
Rape victims 'could have to use attacker's new pronouns in court'
Rape victims will need to call their attackers by female pronouns in court if they change gender, MSPs have warned.
Concerns have been raised that a man who rapes a woman and then changes gender before a trial would then have to be referred to as 'she' or 'her'.
Scottish Conservative community safety spokesman Russell Findlay, who has sought clarification on the issue from the Justice Secretary and senior Police Scotland officials, said: 'It sounds absurd, ludicrous and unimaginable, but the answers that I got were worryingly vague and completely unconvincing.'
Nationalist MSP Michelle Thomson, who previously spoke about her personal experience of rape as a teenager, failed in a bid to ensure that gender recognition certificate applications are paused if an applicant has been charged with sexual assault and would not be granted until the case is disposed of.
In the vote at the Scottish parliament, 61 MSPs voted for and 61 against, only for the amendment to fall on the casting vote of Deputy Presiding Officer Liam McArthur.
Mrs Thomson told MSPs: 'During stage 2, and again today, Russell Findlay pointed out that a woman could end up having to refer to her attacker as 'she'.
'Do members in the chamber understand how that could represent an opportunity for abusers to exert power and control over their victims?'
Social Justice Secretary Shona Robison said the Government had committed to regulations to amend the sex offender notification requirements so that people who are on the register would be required to notify police of the details if they applied for legal gender recognition.
She added: 'That will mean additional information will be available to help to identify an individual and inform their subsequent management under the multi-agency public protection arrangements.
'That will allow action to be taken either in relation to the application itself, if necessary, or as part of the broader police role in managing the registered sex offender population.'
Ahead of the votes, Miss Robison wrote to three MSPs, including Mrs Thomson, asking them to withdraw proposed changes to the legislation or risk delaying its passage through parliament.
She reportedly warned them that their amendments would put the Bill at 'serious risk' of being outwith Holyrood's competence, and said the changes risked being incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights.
Spain approves trans rights bill that has split the left 
People outside the Spanish parliament in Madrid today after the new Transgender Law was announced 
Lawmakers on Thursday passed a transgender rights bill allowing anyone 16 and over to change gender on their ID card, putting Spain on track to becoming one of the few countries to allow the change with a simple declaration.
Approved by 188 votes with 150 against and seven abstentions, the bill now moves to the Senate where, if left unchanged as expected, it will become law in weeks.
The bill simplifies the procedure for changing gender on a person's national identity card, allowing them to request the change on a simple statement.
It also bans conversion therapies, promotes non-discrimination against LGBTQ people and seeks 'to advance the inclusion' of transwomen in particular.
In Europe, Denmark was the first country to grant such a right in 2014.
'We share the concerns that many people have regarding certain aspects of this Bill, and in particular the safety issues for women and children,' he said.
'We will look closely at that, and also the ramifications for the 2010 Equality Act and other UK-wide legislation, in the coming weeks - up to and including a Section 35 order stopping the Bill going for Royal Assent if necessary.'
 was accused of personally blocking an amendment which would have stopped rapists and paedophiles from gaining a GRC as the row over the law deepened. 
Tory leader Douglas Ross laid blame for the failure of the amendment to pass directly as Ms Sturgeon's door, saying: 'The government stopped that amendment by a single vote. The First Minister's own vote means a man standing trial for rape can claim they're a woman and force a victim to call them ''she.''
'Why did the First Minister vote for this?'
His frontbench colleague Rachael Hamilton later said the law was 'a threat to women in all their diversity'. But another Tory frontbencher, Jamie Green, voted for the law. Tory MSPs had a free vote so he will face no punishment.
The SNP leader was blasted at First Minister's Questions as she pushed controversial reforms through the Scottish Parliament after days of fierce argument.
The vote was postponed from last night amid bitter political fighting at Holyrood and demonstrations on the streets of 
Ms Sturgeon insisted that the law would protect women, saying: 'My argument is not – and it has never been and never will be – that these are not very real ways in which predatory men abuse women. 
'My argument is that none of these ways are created by this Bill. Nor would it be the case that any of these ways are addressed by denying rights to trans people.
'The fact of the matter is a man who wants to abuse a woman, even a man who wants to masquerade as a woman in order to do so, does not need a gender recognition certificate to do that, and nor does having a gender recognition certificate give that man any more ability or rights to do that than is currently the case.
'What we must focus on are the men who abuse women, the predatory and abusive men who do that, and this government always will in a range of different ways.'
As the heated debate surrounding the Bill rolled into a third day, it emerged that some feminist campaigners plan to challenge it through the courts, claiming it puts women at risk.
The UK Government also warned that court action by Westminster was 'on the table'.
Last night MP and former frontbencher Joanna Cherry, a leading critic of the law, said SNP politicians in Westminster and Holyrood were 'scared to speak out' on gender reform. She said there were only 'minimal safeguards' in the legislation, which 'raises problems for the safety, dignity and privacy of women'.
The Bill was initially set to go to a final vote on Wednesday, but it was pushed to this afternoon due to the debate over amendments. Tuesday and Wednesday's debates went longer than any other in the history of the Scottish Parliament, with MSPs sitting until around 1.30am this morning. 
 have attempted to make the consideration of amendments take as long as possible by repeatedly raising points of order and pushing every amendment to a vote, even if the proposer chose not to do so.    
Hundreds of protesters gathered outside Holyrood yesterday afternoon to express their opposition to the Bill. 
And ministers in London have already warned that changing the rules in Scotland will cause chaos.
Ms Cherry, who is also a leading KC, said: 'Before I went into politics I worked as a specialist sex crimes prosecutor and I know that some men, some predatory men, will take advantage of loopholes in legislation to get access to vulnerable women.
'The Scottish Parliament isn't sovereign in the way that the British Parliament is, and its legislation can be subject to judicial review.
'I suspect that we will see a challenge to this Bill from grassroots feminist organisations but I really hope it doesn't come to that. I don't think it's too late to pause the Bill and to look at some of the issues which I believe haven't been looked at properly. Those issues involve safeguards in the legislation.'
Ms Cherry added that she 'can't understand' why a narrow majority of MSPs voted against the amendment preventing rapists and violent sexual offenders from taking advantage of the legislation.
Aileen McHarg, professor of public law and human rights at Durham University, told the BBC that a legal challenge is 'very likely'.
It is understood that the UK Government is likely to ask for changes after the legislation is passed to resolve any cross-border issues or impacts on reserved areas, such as issuing pasports and ricing licences, before the Bill receives Royal Assent.
During this 28-day process, it could propose additional safeguards to minimise the impact of the legislation on other parts of the UK.
A UK Government source said: 'It is not all or nothing. It is not 28 days where there is nothing to do except mount a legal challenge. 
'There are things that are short of that.' But they added that a legal challenge is 'still on the cards' if the issues raised remain unresolved.
As well as opposition to the Bill from members of the public, including author JK Rowling, experts believe there could be grounds for a legal challenge by the UK Government. 
Michael Foran, lecturer in public law at the University of Glasgow, said the UK Government can use a 'Section 35' order precluding Holyrood's Presiding Officer from submitting a Bill for Royal Assent if the legislation has an adverse impact on law in reserved areas.
He claimed there are 'reasonable grounds' to believe that Bill would 'adversely affect the operation of the law relating to equal opportunities'.
What is in Scotland's gender law? 
The Scottish Parliament has passed a law which reforms the gender recognition process in Scotland.
The Gender Recognition Reform Bill passed after lengthy debates at Holyrood, often amid divisive political rhetoric.
It has been discussed for years, with strong opinions for and against changing the 2004 Gender Recognition Act.
Here are some of the key points, and what comes next.
The main element of the Bill is to make it easier for trans people to obtain a gender recognition certificate (GRC) by removing the requirement for a diagnosis of gender dysphoria.
It will also lower the minimum age for applicants from 18 to 16 and drop the time required for an applicant to live in their acquired gender from two years to three months - six for people aged 16 and 17 - though with a subsequent, three-month reflection period.
The Bill has been amended as it moved through Holyrood.
At stage two, it was announced 16- and 17-year-olds would need to live in their acquired gender for six months rather than three before applying for a GRC.
It was also announced there will be new statutory aggravation to the offence of making a fraudulent application for a GRC.
At stage three, MSPs backed a change tabled by SNP MSP Gillian Martin which means anyone subject to a sexual harm prevention order or sexual offences prevention order will have to undergo a full risk assessment before being granted a GRC.
Campaigners in favour of the Bill say a move to make trans peoples' lives easier is long overdue.
A group of LGBTQ+ groups recently issued a joint letter saying the Bill is a 'historic opportunity to continue Scotland's journey towards full social and legal equality'.
They disagree that an expansion of trans peoples' rights comes at the expense of women's rights, saying the Bill will have little impact outside the trans community.
Nicola Sturgeon, whose government launched the Bill, said the current system of medical diagnoses was 'intrusive, traumatic and dehumanising'.
Those in opposition to the Bill say it will impact the safety of women and single-sex spaces.
They say there are insufficient safeguards to protect women and girls from predatory men, raising concerns about environments like women's prisons.
Protests inside and outside the Scottish Parliament have called on MSPs to vote down the Bill.
Some oppose the Bill on religious grounds, saying it will blur the distinction between men and women.
Unusually in Scottish politics, opposition to the Bill has cut across party lines.
In October, the SNP's Ash Regan quit the government in protest at the Bill, as nine of the party's MSPs either abstained or voted against stage one of the Bill.
Others in the SNP, like MP Joanna Cherry, have had longstanding opposition to the process of gender recognition reform.
Most Conservative MSPs are opposed to the Bill, with exceptions being Jamie Greene and Dr Sandesh Gulhane.
Scottish Labour are largely in favour, but some MSPs appear to have been in the opposition camp during debates on the amendments.
Scottish Green and Lib Dem MSPs are in favour of the new law.
Once the Bill has passed at Holyrood, attention will turn to how the UK Government reacts.
This is because UK equalities minister Kemi Badenoch has said she has concerns about legal divergence between Scotland the rest of the UK.
Any dispute between the two governments could end up in court. In the absence of any challenge, the Bill would receive royal assent, and become law.
Share or comment on this article: 
Westminster and Holyrood clash over Scotland's new gender rules
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
