Shock new role for David Warner as the Australian cricket star confirms Fox Sports commentary role | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
SAMI MOKBEL: Arne Slot will bring attacking, entertaining football back to Tottenham… but, Mr Levy, he likes to be in control of the ENTIRE footballing operation and is not afraid to jump ship
Vinicius Jnr's red card against Valencia is rescinded and Mestalla stand is ordered to be closed for FIVE matches, with the club fined £40,000 as Spanish FA FINALLY act on vile racist abuse of Real Madrid star
Operation FA Cup final: City and United assigned their own service stations amid fears of violence, with drivers warned about no-go zones as 160 coaches transport thousands to Wembley
Real Madrid plot SHOCK £40m move for Liverpool left back Andy Robertson as they look to replace  Ferland Mendy... with the Spanish giants able to offer the Scotland captain Champions League football next season
Raheem Sterling one of a number of high-profile England stars whose squad place is in doubt as Gareth Southgate prepares to name his party for Euro 2024 qualifiers on Wednesday
IAN HERBERT: As Steve Cooper saved Nottingham Forest, he had the class to embrace the club's past... do NOT be surprised if the cult hero succeeds Gareth Southgate as England manager
Pep Guardiola insists he will NOT leave Manchester City this summer if they win the Treble, as the manager looks forward to the 'challenge' of defending their Premier League title
Everton are among the few genuine giants of English football, writes lifelong supporter BRIAN VINER ahead of their final-day battle for survival. So now that the magic seems so irretrievably lost, fans are hurt, bewildered and angry
Arne Slot set to become new Tottenham manager, with talks to negotiate £10m Feyenoord exit set for Wednesday with Mino Raiola's heir Rafaela Pimenta - and his first target is a £40m star
West Ham and Aston Villa are interested in Leicester's £50m-rated forward Harvey Barnes, with the England international unlikely to stay with the Foxes even if they avoid relegation
Cristiano Ronaldo rolls back the years with a powerful run and finish to seal stunning comeback for Al Nassr from 2-0 down to beat Al Shabab 3-2... as they remain three points behind leaders Al Ittihad with two games to go in Saudi Pro League
MIKE DICKSON: The bell's tolling for Rafael Nadal but don't despair... this may be the most thrilling French Open in years with Novak Djokovic and Iga Swiatek facing a host of contenders
Luton are planning to demolish and rebuild their Bobbers Stand in just ONE SUMMER if they secure promotion to the Premier League by beating Coventry in the play-off final on Saturday
Kim Min-jae has been nicknamed 'the monster' and hailed as the 'best centre back in the world' by his Napoli manager… after conquering Serie A the £56m-rated South Korean could soon complete a move to Man United
Bukayo Saka signs a new long-term contract at Arsenal with the winger set to stay at the Emirates until 2027... and he'll become one of the Gunners' highest earners on around £300,000-a-week
Wolves' saviour Julen Lopetegui will hold talks this week over summer transfer plans amid fears he could LEAVE... after hinting he was unaware of club's FFP problems when he joined last year
'Don't wear a white suit for Christ's sake!': Legendary ex-Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson takes a cheeky swipe at Liverpool during pep talk to Premiership finalists Sale
UEFA hold urgent talks on taking a stand against disgraceful racist abuse targeted at Real Madrid's Vinicius Jnr… despite a reluctance to act amid a feeling it is an internal issue for Spanish football
Is Vinicius Jnr ready to LEAVE Real Madrid after latest racism storm? What was chanted amid the disturbing scenes in Valencia? And could LaLiga do more? The big questions answered after young forward's fury
Dominant Man City are champions again but how can their Premier League rivals stop them next season? United need a striker, Arteta and Klopp must overhaul their midfields and Chelsea have to click
'I don't think we could have done any more than what we did': England U21 manager Lee Carsley reveals his disappointment at Arsenal loanee Folarin Balogun's decision to play for the USA instead
West Brom majority owners REFUSE to answer questions about the club's financial status, with shareholders furious at being left in the dark after a lack of clarity over loan repayments
A Bristol City star Pep Guardiola described as an 'unbelievable player', an Italian midfielder Chelsea poached from Inter Milan and Man City's latest signing from Argentina: Six stars ready to light up the U20 World Cup in Indonesia
'I'm looking forward to going to battle with Davey again': Stuart Broad relishing bowling at 'fiery' David Warner in the Ashes after dismissing the Aussie opener 14 times... but says he needs to improve against Steve Smith and Marnus Labuschagne
Shock new role for David Warner revealed as the Aussie cricket superstar prepares to use his reputation as a 'brawler and fighter' in retirement
David Warner has been announced as Fox Cricket's newest commentator 
The Aussie batting superstar has previously had guest stints in the box
After Foxtel won the cricket rights, the CEO said he was excited to bring him in
So much so, Warner can have the role 'as long as he wants' post-retirement 
Kristy Williams For Daily Mail Australia
 04:27, 3 January 2023 
 04:27, 3 January 2023 
There's a shock new role for Aussie cricket superstar 
 as the 100-Test veteran prepares for life beyond the picket fence. 
The 36-year-old opener, who pulled off a phenomenal double century on the Boxing Day Test while criticism mounted over an extended run of poor form, is set to become the latest legend to step into the commentary box.
Having already made guest appearances providing special comments, the effervescent Warner is expected to make a seamless transition to the box once he eventually hangs up the baggy green. 
David Warner, pictured with wife Candice, has found a new role - cricket commentating - with retirement on the horizon
It comes as Cricket Australia confirmed a $1.5billion broadcast rights deal on Tuesday, with Foxtel and Channel 7 to continue their partnership with the nation's governing body until 2031. 
Former cricket legends like Justin Langer, Matthew Hayden, Ricky Ponting, Adam Gilchrist, Allan Border and Mark Waugh are just some of the game's figures who have proved to be a hit this summer across both broadcasters.  
Sadly, the tragic deaths of enormous cricket personalities Andrew Symonds and Shane Warne have led a gaping hole in Fox Cricket team, however. 
Why Cricket Australia REJECTED incredible $1.5billion TV...
David Warner gives fans a blow-by-blow guide to how his body...
Bullish David Warner refutes retirement talk and reveals he...
Awkward moment David Warner's daughter smashes Anthony...
There will be never be another 'Simmo' or 'Warnie' of course, but Warner shares a desire to share his mind no matter the consequences like Warne.
And a similar boyish enthusiasm to Symonds that belies a cold, calculated cricket brain that is often under underestimated. 
Foxtel CEO Patrick Delany had a pep in his step as he addressed media at the Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG) following the confirmation Cricket Australia had chosen the reliability of the pay TV broadcaster over the huge money thrown at them by the American-owned Paramount+.
David Warner scored his first Test century in three years when he notched up 200 against South African at the MCG with his career hanging by a thread 
'I think it's not possible to replace Shane (Warne) and Andrew (Symonds),' he told reporters from the hallowed SCG turf ahead of Wednesday's Test.
'We've thought long and hard about what we might do with the coverage. When you've got names like Gilchrist and Guha, Hussey, Border, Waugh, Mel Jones, it's a very, very big team.
The Fox chief, who has been in the hot seat at the satellite and streaming service since 2018, lauded Warner as the next big thing in commentary and confirmed the broadcaster was rolling out the red carpet.  
Foxtel believe the bullish Warner (right, pictured with wife Candice) will be very popular with cricket fans behind the mic, backing his reputation as a 'fighter and brawler' to shine through with the audience 
'I think he'll be a very, very good cricket commentator.
'We’re using him at the moment, he sporadically comes on. When he chooses to retire, he’ll come on with us ... for as long as he wants,' said Delany, appearing to provide an open chequebook for the foreseeable future.
Former top pundit, now executive director of Fox Sports Steve Crawley, was equally as bullish on the new recruit. 
For his superb 200 in the Boxing Day Test, David Warner won the Mullagh Medal and is set to continue his Test career for the foreseeable future
'When he (Warner) came out to bat you could double your audience. He made cricket exciting,' he told 
'And he's the same in the twilight of his career as he was in the beginning — a swashbuckling, fearless individual.
'I've been around sports broadcasting a long time and believe David Warner is made for commentary the same he was made to open the batting,' said Crawley.
Of course Warner isn't retired yet.
Difficult away tours to India and England - where Warner has often struggled - are upcoming, while as soon as this current Test series will be over, the pugnacious left-hander will be going straight into his first BBL season in with the Thunder. 
David Warner (right) attended Prime Minister Anthony Albanese's official residence, Kirribilli House, on New Years Day, and has previously indicated he wouldn't mind entering politics 
He's also previously indicated he'd like to play in this year's ODI World Cup and the T20 World Cup in 2024 - despite his form drastically slipping in both formats. 
Warner has long been shrewd when it comes to thinking of life after cricket and diversifying his life.
Among the business interests the veteran opener worth an estimated $20million has been involved in includes horse ownership marketplace Black Type X, a Victorian brewery of which he is director, 666Vodka and numerous investment properties to go with a slew of other projects.
He's even indicated he'd wouldn't mind entering politics - and tested the waters on New Years Day with a match against Prime Minister Anthony Albanese at Kirribilli House.  
You can now add commentary to that ever-growing list, and no doubt he will thrive in the spotlight.
Cricket news 2022: David Warner joins Fox Cricket commentary, Foxtel Group broadcast deal, Cricket Australia, how much is it, value, latest, updates
Share or comment on this article: 
Shock new role for David Warner as the Australian cricket star confirms Fox Sports commentary role
SAMI MOKBEL: Arne Slot will bring attacking, entertaining football back to Tottenham&hellip; but, Mr Levy, he likes...
Vinicius Jnr's red card against Valencia is rescinded and Mestalla stand is ordered to be closed for FIVE...
EXCLUSIVE: Operation FA Cup final - Manchester City and United assigned their own service stations amid...
Raheem Sterling one of a number of high-profile England stars whose squad place is in doubt as Gareth...
Pep Guardiola insists he will NOT leave Manchester City this summer if they win the Treble, as the manager...
IAN HERBERT: As Steve Cooper saved Nottingham Forest, he had the class to embrace the club's past... do NOT...
Arne Slot set to become new Tottenham manager, with talks to negotiate &pound;10m Feyenoord exit set for Wednesday...
Everton are among the few genuine giants of English football, writes lifelong supporter BRIAN VINER ahead of...
Dominant Man City are champions again but how can their Premier League rivals stop them next season? United...
West Ham and Aston Villa are interested in Leicester's &pound;50m-rated forward Harvey Barnes, with the England...
Cristiano Ronaldo rolls back the years with a powerful run and finish to seal stunning comeback for Al Nassr...
MIKE DICKSON:&nbsp;The bell's tolling for Rafael Nadal but don't despair... this may be the most thrilling French...
Luton are planning to demolish and rebuild their Bobbers Stand in just ONE SUMMER if they secure promotion...
Kim Min-jae has been nicknamed 'the monster' and hailed as the 'best centre back in the world' by his Napoli...
Bukayo Saka signs a new long-term contract at Arsenal with the winger set to stay at the Emirates until...
Wolves' saviour Julen Lopetegui will hold talks this week over summer transfer plans amid fears he could...
'Don't wear a white suit for Christ's sake!': Legendary ex-Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson takes a...
EXCLUSIVE: UEFA hold urgent talks on taking a stand against disgraceful racist abuse targeted at Real...
Is Vinicius Jnr ready to LEAVE Real Madrid after latest racism storm? What was chanted amid the disturbing...
Taiwo Awoniyi secures Forest's survival, Bryan Mbeumo proves he can step up in Ivan Toney's absence and...
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
