What do YOU think 550 divided by two is? | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Prince Harry loses latest legal challenge against Home Office after it refused to let him pay for Met Police to act as his personal security because its officers 'are not guns for hire'
Pictured: Two teenage boys who died in e-scooter tragedy that sparked Cardiff riots - as residents survey 'warzone' aftermath and force hits back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
Wrong again! IMF finally admits Britain WON'T go into recession this year as it upgrades forecast AGAIN - after Jeremy Hunt warned it had been far too gloomy
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Is the axe hanging over Suella Braverman? Rishi Sunak gathers Cabinet as he mulls Home Secretary's fate with 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
Row over Blur singer Damon Albarn's 'intrusive' eco-friendly heat pumps outside his Devon farmhouse as frontman installs a second box near public footpath 'before being granted planning permission'
Lib Dem leader Ed Davey says a woman can 'quite clearly' have a penis as he is asked about trans rights in radio phone in
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Here comes the bride! Queen Rania of Jordan gives emotional tribute to her son Crown Hussein in touching speech in first celebration ahead of his wedding
SATs marking is delayed for a week amid 'chaos' as technical glitches see teachers unable to access online assessment portal - with some now having to work over half term break
Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
Moscow running scared: Kremlin evacuates nine border villages and admits there is 'cause for serious concern' as pro-Ukraine fighters capture territory within Russia's Belgorod region
Ukraine carried out Nord Stream pipe blast, German police suspect - despite suspicious Russian naval activity in the area
Succession fans go wild after Brian Cox's real wife Nicole Ansari-Cox makes a surprise cameo at Logan Roy's funeral - did YOU spot it?
The best places to stay in the world: Scarborough B&B is named best on Earth AGAIN in Tripadvisor awards, Shangri-La The Shard is Europe's No.1, Georgia hotel tops USA list... and property in India gets the global crown
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Wife whose husband always flies first class but makes  her and their children sit in economy asks if she should divorce him
Moment furious motorist attacks Just Stop Oil eco-zealots as he pushes them to the ground before police officers swoop in and handcuff HIM during another slow-march protest through capital
New ITV drama Maryland makes viewers break down in tears within MINUTES - as fans claim 'no one is more moving' than Suranne Jones
Fury as man, 82, breaks his hip after falling from kerb which 'looks too similar to the road' - and moments later watched as a woman tripped and broke her arm along the same path
This Morning viewing figures are already on the rise as Alison Hammond and Dermot O'Leary helm show after Phillip Schofield's axing... while the duo cheerfully open their latest show
Is ITV about to make a 'clean break' with Phillip Schofield? Axed star 'could be eased out after Soap Awards' - with Dermot O'Leary, Rylan Clark and Alison Hammond expected to help 'star host' Holly present This Morning
What do YOU think 550 divided by two is? Equation goes viral as social media users are left baffled by the real answer
Social media users around the world are shocked that half of 550 is 275 
Tweets and Reddit threads express shock that the real answer isn't actually 225 
It comes as UK PM Rishi Sunak plans on making Maths compulsory to age of 18
 14:14, 4 January 2023 
 17:55, 4 January 2023 
Social media users have been left bewildered after discovering that 550 divided by two is 275.
Baffled numerophiles braving mental mathematics have expressed their disdain at the calculation – and that it does not equal 225.
If you multiply 225 by two it equals 450, but for some reason, people seem to have it stuck in their heads that the result of 225 x 2 is 550.  
 threads around the world are sharing the 'bad news' and revealing that some were 'today years old' when they realised the actual answer of the division problem.
Social media users are bewildered to discover that 550 divided by two is 275 – and not 225 as many seem to instinctively assume
'How will this fix broken Britain?' Rishi Sunak's 'big idea'...
100% of parents failed this GCSE maths question...but can...
 posted a meme picture showing two figures taking a third on a stretcher, with one asking: 'What happened to him?'
The second man responds: 'He found out that 550/2 is not 225.'
The image quickly went viral, with 105,000 people liking the post on Twitter and many sharing their own confusion on the platform. 
Another person on the site questioned: 'How old were you when you first discovered that 550 divided by 2 is not 225?'
Tweets, memes and Reddit threads around the world are sharing the 'bad news' and revealing that some were 'today years old' when they realised the real answer of the division problem 
A second maths aficionado from Pakistan also shared the revelation, dubbing it a 'reality check'. 
Elsewhere, a disoriented cross-country driver from Panama was equally unimpressed at the outcome, writing: 'I have breaking news! 550 divided by 2 is not 225.'
One person from Zimbabwe simply proclaimed: '550 divided by 2 should be = 225.' 
According to the social media site 
, the division problem first began baffling users on Vietnamese Facebook pages around 2019. 
The numerical mayhem has gone viral as 
's 'big idea' of making Maths compulsory to the age of 18 was mocked as a 'dead cat' to distract from the 
 crisis and winter of discontent.
In his first major speech as PM this afternoon, the Prime Minister promised to equip children for the 'jobs of the future' by combating high rates of innumeracy in the UK.
Young people will be forced to take 'some form' of Maths delivered either through new courses or existing qualifications such as A-levels, T-levels and Core Maths. For most the drive is likely to involve practical skills rather than algebra.
But Opposition parties dismissed the initiative as 'empty' and an 'admission of failure' – while 
 urged Mr Sunak to focus on tackling illegal immigration instead. 
The numerical mayhem comes as Rishi Sunak 's 'big idea' of making Maths compulsory to the age of 18 was today mocked as a 'dead cat'. Pictured: The PM outside Downing Street
Attempting to make a virtue of his own privileged education at elite public school Winchester College, the premier is expected to say: 'This is personal for me. Every opportunity I've had in life began with the education I was so fortunate to receive. 
'And it's the single most important reason why I came into politics: To give every child the highest possible standard of education.
'Thanks to the reforms we've introduced since 2010, and the hard work of so many excellent teachers, we've made incredible progress.
'With the right plan – the right commitment to excellence – I see no reason why we cannot rival the best education systems in the world.'
'How will this fix broken Britain?' 
 - as Tories demand he focuses on illegal immigration instead
'I'm in charge of curing the NHS now': 
Share or comment on this article: 
What do YOU think 550 divided by two is?
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
See the key trend collection from per una at M&S.  Shop now.
You can't fake TV chemistry - the camera doesn't lie: Louise Minchin warns viewers will always spot problems...
They're the 'guilt-free' doughnuts with the same calories as a glass of milk - but are they any good? We put...
Does your face need a high-tech four-day skin retreat?
Why you should cut that toxic friend out of your life: Mind Doctor MAX PEMBERTON reveals in the wake of the...
Why we should all lie more often: Expert reveals that fibbing can actually make you feel better
'What's it like being a royal?': Adorable moment little girl quizzes Kate at Chelsea Flower Show - as...
Sophie makes a secret trip to Iraq: Duchess of Edinburgh spends two days in Baghdad, Palace reveals, on...
'Smile, you're away from your desks': Prince William cracks jokes with staff during a visit to Earthshot...
Lady in red! Emma Weymouth dazzles in an embellished scarlet gown in Cannes at the Vogue Party
Kate reveals how she is still 'learning to be a royal': Dame Kelly Holmes tells how Princess of Wales told...
Here comes the bride! Queen Rania of Jordan makes an emotional tribute to her future daughter-in-law at&nbsp;...
'The jury's still out': Experts debate the Prince and Princess of Wales's 'slick' new Instagram videos as a...
'A peek behind the scenes!' Prince and Princess of Wales share new black-and-white image of piano-playing...
Sarah Ferguson reveals Princess Eugenie's due date and it's extremely close
PrettyLittleThing - Offers on women's clothing
Get inspired by the newest styles and offers
ASOS - Enjoy discounts from ASOS
Click through for ASOS promo codes this Autumn
Missguided - Get the latest fashion
Spend less with Missguided's exclusive codes
Treat yourself to offers on make-up and accessories
Check out the latest Wayfair sale to save on furniture
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
