Inside Ivanka Trump's VERY lavish post-White House lifestyle in Miami | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his home - as it emerges he has already been cremated
Ed Davey slammed as 'out of touch' for saying some women can 'clearly' have a penis as Lib Dem leader clashes with listener over trans rights during a radio phone-in
World's most miserable countries REVEALED: Zimbabwe, Venezuela and war-torn Syria top chart.... and the UK and US don't even rank in gloomiest 100
Vehicle thefts jump by a quarter as criminals use three hi-tech tactics to pinch cars - do you know what they are and how to evade them?
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
Prepare for a disease even deadlier than Covid, WHO chief warns
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big' lessons need to be learned
Pictured: Two teenage boys who died in e-bike tragedy that sparked Cardiff riots - as residents survey 'warzone' aftermath and police force hits back at social media rumours that 'chase' was to blame
Is the axe hanging over Suella Braverman? Rishi Sunak gathers Cabinet as he mulls Home Secretary's fate with 'email trail showing she told civil servants to help her dodge speeding points'
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil: How reclusive paedophile battled neck cancer and was fed through a tube after shameful fall from grace
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as cause of death is revealed
Inside Rolf Harris' friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked about keeping girl 'safely in his arms' - and watched female patients undress in Broadmoor
From beloved entertainer with royal honours, to convicted paedophile living as a recluse before his death: Rolf Harris's stunning fall from grace
Chilling moment paedophile Rolf Harris warned children about 'touching' and 'yes feelings and no feelings' in 'Kids Can Say No' sex abuse educational video filmed during period of his offending in 1980s
From giant letters H and S to the curious 'ERP': The hundreds of fading signs dating back to WWII that exist around Britain - but do YOU know what they mean?
Groom reveals his new wife cheated on him with the best man in the most BRUTAL fashion during a wedding speech
Four arrested in connection with the hanging of an effigy of Vinicius Jnr from a bridge in January... with the Real Madrid star having again been subjected to racist attacks
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial tells how his life was 'destroyed' and demands answers over why it took so long for justice - as real killer is jailed for 29 years
Her 'brutal' twenties. Her 'unladylike habits'. And the time she only had $40 in her bank account... Meghan Markle's MOST revealing posts on her personal blog, The Tig. (Before she met Prince Harry)
Black 'half-football-field-sized' triangular UFO is seen hovering over California military base for 10 minutes before vanishing in dramatic footage taken by Marines in 2021
Martin Lewis reveals how to bag the best mortgage as base rate rises to 4.5% (and why looking ahead of time can save you money in the long-run)
Urgent warning over vapes as shock investigation reveals gadgets puffed by kids can contain dangerous levels of metals like LEAD and nickel
Gary Lineker is accused of going on 'self-congratulatory fest' to Italy to collect human rights award after his Nazi tweet jibe over Suella Braverman's migrant crackdown
A lady of leisure! Inside Ivanka Trump’s VERY lavish post-White House lifestyle – from jetting off on exotic trips to enjoying water sport sessions, private boat outings, and daily workouts in Miami
Ivanka, 41, is living the high life in Miami with her husband, Jared Kushner, and their three children
The family relocated to Florida after her father left office in January 2021, and they haven't looked back 
They are living in a luxury condo building while renovating a $24 million mansion on Indian Creek island 
Ivanka spent the last six months traveling around the world, including trips to France, Egypt, and Morocco 
The former White House senior advisor announced that she was officially done with politics in November
Ivanka has been keeping busy with her travels, daily workouts, wakeboarding lessons, and volunteering 
 12:35, 5 January 2023 
 14:16, 5 January 2023 
 has bid farewell to politics and has been living a life of leisure
, international travel, and new hobbies to bide her time. 
The former White House senior adviser and her husband, Jared Kushner, relocated to Miami, Florida, with their three children — Arabella, 11, Joseph, nine, and Theodore, six — after her father, former President 
, left office in January 2021.
seems to be happier than ever in their new community, where they are renovating a 
 and feeling the warm embrace of new friends. 
After keeping a relatively low profile, Ivanka, 41, has
 returned to documenting her life on Instagram, including her luxurious getaways and philanthropy efforts, and she doesn't seem to have any desire to return to her old life.
Following Trump's 2024 campaign announcement, she released a statement saying she has chosen to prioritize her family and their private life instead of returning to politics. 
FEMAIL has rounded up all of the activities that kept her busy over the past year, from wakeboarding lessons to trips around the globe. 
A jetsetter! Former First Daughter jets off around the world on lavish vacations - from watching World Cup in Qatar to sightseeing in Paris 
Ivanka has been living a life of leisure since she left politics and spent most of her time traveling last year. She and her husband, Jared, jetted off to Morocco for a romantic getaway in July 
They stayed at the Dakhla Club Hotel &amp; Spa, where they posed with staffers wearing matching mustard hoodies featuring the Kiteboarding Club's 'KBC' logo
The couple appeared to be child-free as they stayed at a luxury beachfront hotel
Ivanka shared photos from their Moroccan getaway on Instagram, including a snapshot of herself smiling brightly while walking on the sand 
The bowling alley managers' son who became one of...
Self-care in 2023! J-Beauty believes skincare should be an...
Strolling in style! A-list celebrity moms spotted showing...
Ivanka is no stranger to the jet-set lifestyle, but she spent the last half of 2022 traveling all over the world, including trips to Europe, Asia, and Africa. 
In July, she and her husband, Jared, jetted to Morocco, where they enjoyed a romantic getaway at the Dakhla Club Hotel &amp; Spa.
The resort, which is located on the Dakhla lagoon in South Morocco, is popular with kite surfers because of the consistent windy conditions. Rooms are relatively affordable and go for just over $200 a night. 
The Dakhla Club Hotel &amp; Spa announced the couple's arrival on Instagram by posting a snapshot of them posing with staffers while wearing matching mustard hoodies featuring the Kiteboarding Club's 'KBC' logo. 
In late October, Ivanka and Jared returned to Europe for a special trip to Prague to accept an award on behalf of her late mother, Ivana Trump 
Ivanka was joined by her brother Donald  Trump Jr. when they met with the Czech Republic President Milos Zeman during the award ceremony 
Ivanka and Jared managed to fit in plenty of sightseeing, and she posted photos from their travels on October 30, which happened to be her 41st birthday
The couple also celebrated their 13th wedding anniversary the week they traveled to Prague
The trip included a stop in Casablanca, where they
 visited the Hassan II Mosque, one of the city's most famous sights. They also hiked to a waterfall in the Atlas Mountains and visited the small village of Imlil.
Three months later, Ivanka and Jared enjoyed a whirlwind weekend in London and were spotted leaving the popular private members club Oswald's at 12:30 a.m. one night.  
In late October, the couple returned to Europe with her brother Donald Trump Jr. for a special trip to Prague. 
an award on behalf of their late mother, Ivana Trump, who was being honored by the Czech Republic President Milos Zeman for her 'dedication to the cultural and social life' of the country. 
Wedding planner reveals brutal way groom exposed cheating wife
Video shows cat who went missing for two years finally back at home
Sarah Ferguson's goddaughter dances with her bride after wedding
Maryland: Heartbreaking moment Becca holds father after mother's death
Tiktoker bikini fan shares she's unfazed by stares over her 'big boobs'
Adorable moment girl asks Kate what it is like to be a Princess
Lisa Snowdon opens up about her menopause struggle and abortion
Tess Hartmann says it's RUDE to not bring a present to a wedding
Countryfile viewers go wild for teen farmer after giving up TikTok
2010: Kevin McCloud admires Lincoln Miles' bungalow transformation
Heartbroken grandmother reveals she was scammed off £10,000 on eBay
Dame Kelly Holmes got 'carried away' when meeting Princess of Wales
Ivanka and Jared headed to Utah for some adventure in early November 
Ivanka posted plenty of snapshots of herself touring Bryce Canyon
The couple also tackled the Cave Peak Stairway at the luxe Amangiri resort. The inclined suspension bridge is set 400 feet above the desert
Ivanka and Jared were all smiles as they posed on top of a mountain peak together 
Ivanka and Jared managed to fit in plenty of sightseeing, and she posted photos from their travels on October 30, which happened to be her 41st birthday.  
A week later, they were in Utah for some adventure, including tackling the Cave Peak Stairway at the luxe Amangiri resort near Bryce Canyon.
She shared a video of herself slowly navigating the inclined suspension bridge that is set 400 feet above the desert. She also posted a snapshot of herself posing with Jared at the top of the peak.  
Ivanka and her family then jetted off to the Middle East for the Thanksgiving holiday, a week after she publicly quit politics for the foreseeable future. 
The couple then jetted off to Egypt with their children - Arabella, Joseph, and Theodore - ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday
They rode camels and toured the pyramids, including the Great Sphinx of Giza
After they left Egypt, the headed to Qatar to watch the World Cup  
The family attended a total of four matches and met French star Kylian Mbappé after Les Bleus defeated Denmark on November 26 
Ivanka managed to sneak in one last international trip in December, when she flew to Paris for the first half of Hanukkah with her 11-year-old daughter, Arabella 
The two visited many of the French city's top sightseeing destinations, including the Louvre 
The mother-daughter duo road horses together and watched a 'horse ballet' at the Versailles Academy of Equestrian Arts
Their travels started in Egypt, where they rode camels and toured the pyramids, including the Great Sphinx of Giza. They then headed to Qatar to watch the World Cup.
The family attended a total of four matches and met French star Kylian Mbappé after Les Bleus defeated Denmark on November 26. 
Ivanka managed to sneak in one last international trip in December, when she flew to Paris for the first half of Hanukkah with Arabella for a special mother-daughter getaway. 
The two visited many of the French city's top sightseeing destinations, including the Eiffel Tower, the Louvre, and the royal stables at the Versailles Academy of Equestrian Arts to watch a 'horse ballet.' 
They also stopped by La Galerie Dior, which takes museum-goers through the history of French haute couture designer Christian Dior, his work, and the evolution of the brand. 
Staying active: Ivanka enjoys daily workouts at the gym - and indulges in fun-filled water sport sessions  
Now that Ivanka is officially done with politics, she has been filling her days with workouts and is often seen heading to and from the gym 
Water sports have also become a natural pastime for the born and bred New Yorker, who has been taking wakeboarding lessons in her free time
Ivanka and her family are often seen spending their afternoons on a chartered boat in Miami Beach, where they swim in the water and go tubing
Ivanka has been an avid runner for years, but she has amped up her fitness routine since leaving her post at the White House two years ago.
Now that she is officially done with politics, she has been filling her days with workout sessions with her personal trainer. She is regularly spotted driving to and from the gym in matching workout sets that highlight her toned physique. 
Water sports have also become a natural pastime for the born and bred New Yorker, who has been taking wakeboarding lessons in her free time.
Back in September, she shared photos of herself wakeboarding underneath a rainbow that were so picturesque, she was accused of photoshopping the images.   
The family is often seen spending their afternoons on a chartered boat in Biscayne Bay, where they swim in the water and go tubing. They have regular trips to the beach, and her kids often have their boogie boards in tow. 
They life just steps from the beach, and her kids love to go boogie boarding in the surf  
Ivanka and Jared have been spotted on plenty of walks with their children. The family is pictured enjoying a stroll with Jared's parents, Charles and Seryl Kushner 
Ivanka spent the first day of 2023 playing padel at billionaire businessman Wayne Boich's mansion in Miami 
Padel could become Ivanka's go-to sport in the new year. She looked ready for some friendly competition in a white tennis dress, visor, and sneakers 
The mother of three still goes running with her husband, an activity they started doing together back when they still lived in New York City. They also enjoy bike rides, golf sessions, and long walks both with and without their three children. 
Ivanka may have another activity on her roster after spending the first day of 2023 playing padel with friends in Miami. The racquet sport, which is popular in Spain and Latin America, is usually played in doubles on a small, closed court. 
She was spotted arriving at the mansion of billionaire businessman Wayne Boich on New Year's Day in a black service car, dressed in a white tennis dress, visor, and sneakers, exclusive DailyMail.com photos show.
Ivanka, an avid tennis fan, appears to share a love for racquet sports with Boich, who earned his business degree at the University of Miami on a full tennis scholarship. 
The Ohio coal mining heir now runs the Miami Padel Open, a sporting event sponsored by high-end and luxury brands. 
Padel could become Ivanka's go-to sport in the new year.  
Fun with friends and family: From a birthday party with pals to half-sister Tiffany's wedding, Ivanka soaks up the sun with her nearest and dearest 
Ivanka celebrated her 41st birthday on a private boat with some of her gal pals last fall 
They enjoyed drinks and a charcuterie board as they soaked up the sun while out on the water
Ivanka and her pals later got dressed up for her birthday dinner at South Beach Italian restaurant Call Me Gaby
Ivanka and Jared have a new set of friends in Miami after being ostracized by many of the high-society connections they once socialized with while living in New York City.
The couple has 'found their crew' and become such regulars at high-end restaurants like Carbone that customers barely turn their heads when they walk in these days,' 
'No one cares anymore. They're all rich and spending a lot of money,' a source told the magazine. 'That's the equalizer, and it's stronger than anything else they'd agree or disagree on. Though it happens that they mostly agree here.'
Ivanka turned 41 on October 30, and she had multiple celebrations with her girlfriends, including a private boat trip in Miami.  
Ivanka was joined by her younger half-sister, Tiffany Trump, who posed for a photo with her at dinner 
Ivanka had over a dozen friends at the restaurant, where she sat in the middle of the table 
At the end of the dinner, she blew out the candles on her cake, which was decorated with marble fondant and gold leaf
She and her pals enjoyed drinks and a charcuterie board as they soaked up the sun while out on the water. The former first daughter was dressed in a sheer lace top and shorts, which she wore over a brown bikini. 
Ivanka later enjoyed a birthday dinner with her younger half-sister, Tiffany Trump, and over a dozen friends at the South Beach Italian restaurant Call Me Gaby. 
The birthday girl was dressed to impress in a floral mini dress and white stilettos as she posed for pictures both by herself and with her loved ones.   
At the end of the dinner, she was photographed blowing out the candles on her cake, which was decorated with marble fondant and gold leaf. 
Just days later, Ivanka attended her sister Tiffany's bridal shower that was held at a mansion in Miami. 
Just days later, Ivanka attended her sister Tiffany's bridal shower that was held at a mansion in Miami. She and her sister-in-law wore nearly identical floral dresses from Reformation  
When Tiffany tied the knot with billionaire Michael Boulos at her father's Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida, on November 12, Ivanka served as her matron of honor
More recently, the mother of three enjoyed a flower arranging class with her friends in Miami 
She and her sister-in-law Lara Trump had a bit of an awkward moment when they both arrived wearing nearly identical floral dresses from Reformation, but they didn't let the fashion faux pas stop them from enjoying the event. 
When Tiffany tied the knot with billionaire Michael Boulos at her father's Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida, on November 12, Ivanka served as her matron of honor. 
Ivanka modeled a blue Grecian-style dress that was nearly identical to the gown actress-turned-princess Grace Kelly wore in 'To Catch a Thief,' the 1955 romantic thriller directed by Alfred Hitchcock. 
More recently, the mother of three enjoyed a flower arranging class with her friends in Miami and shared snapshots from the night out last month. 
'Had so much fun with my girls last night creating beautiful floral arrangements to kick off the holiday season!' she captioned the post. 
Giving back: Ivanka takes part in philanthropic endeavors, from delivering food boxes to visiting Ukrainian refugees 
Ivanka traveled to Poland to meet with Ukrainian refugees last spring after collaborating with religious groups to send one million meals to the war-torn country 
Ivanka, who learned how to play guitar during the pandemic, had a jam session with a little girl she met on the volunteer trip
In March, the former first daughter visited a community in New Orleans that was ravaged by tornadoes and delivered meals to locals in need 
When Ivanka wasn't traveling or spending quality time with her family last year, she made an effort to give back to those in need in both her community and overseas. 
In March, she collaborated with religious groups City of Destiny, City Serve, and Mercy Chefs to send one million meals to war-torn Ukraine.  
The former first daughter also visited a community in New Orleans that was ravaged by tornadoes and delivered meals to locals in need. A few months later, she traveled to Poland to meet with Ukrainian refugees, including a little girl she played guitar with. 
In the fall, she served food to Hurricane Ian survivors in Fort Myers, Florida, and jetted off to North Carolina to hand out food with the organization Ripe Revival on Giving Tuesday. 
Ivanka served food to Hurricane Ian survivors in Fort Myers, Florida, last fall 
She also jetted off to North Carolina to hand out food with the organization Ripe Revival on Giving Tuesday 
In September, Ivanka and her two oldest children volunteered with the JCS Kosher Food Bank, the only food bank in Miami-Dade County that offers kosher foods for those who observe Jewish dietary laws
The company's nonprofit distributes meat, dairy, and produce to rural families in the state who are battling food insecurity in the state. 
Ivanka also continued volunteering with the JCS Kosher Food Bank, the only food bank in Miami-Dade County that offers kosher foods for those who observe Jewish dietary laws.
She converted to Judaism in 2009 to marry Jared, and they are raising their children in the same faith. Through the organization, she and her children Arabella and Joseph met with elderly individuals in the Miami community back in September. 
'We shared a lot of laughs and heard some great stories as we brought food, flowers, toiletries, and homemade dog treats to the homes of seniors who will be alone this Rosh Hashanah holiday,' the mother of three shared on Instagram. 
Living the high life: Trump-Kushners enjoy expansive views of Miami beaches in their luxury condo - while waiting for new mega-mansion to be built 
Ivanka and Jared are renovating a $24 million waterfront mansion that sits on 1.3 acres on Indian Creek, an exclusive island that is known as the 'Billionaire Bunker.' They are expected to move in sometime this year 
Ivanka and Jared have been seen enjoying walks to Indian Creek to check on the progress of their dream home  
Ivanka and Jared, who grew up in New York and New Jersey, respectively, relocated to Miami after the 2020 election and haven't looked back.
home in Washington, D.C.'s affluent Kalorama neighborhood
 and into Arte Surfside, where they have been living for the past two years. 
The luxury condominium building, which is nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour, has a tennis court on the roof, and they have their own private pool and yard. 
one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month. Their condo is set to hit the market for $18.8 million sometime this year. 
They have spent the past two years living at Arte Surfside, a luxury condo building nestled between Miami Beach and Bal Harbour
The building has a tennis court on the roof, and the family has their own private pool and yard
Arte Surfside is one of the most expensive complexes in Miami-Dade County, with an average rental price of nearly $47,000 per month. Ivanka and Jared's condo is set to hit the market for $18.8 million sometime this year
Its penthouse sold for $33 million to an unnamed private equity executive from New York in January 2021 — the same month that they moved into the building.  
Ivanka and Jared scooped up a $24 million waterfront mansion that sits on 1.3 acres on Indian Creek, an exclusive island that is known as the 'Billionaire Bunker.' 
They plan on moving into the spatial 8,500-square-foot abode once their extensive renovations are completed. 
The couple bought the fixer-upper a little over a year after they dropped $31.8 million on a two-acre plot of land on the island in 2020. 
Ivanka and Jared have been seen enjoying walks to Indian Creek, both with and without their children, to check on the progress of their dream home. 
Inside Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner’s Gilded Florida Paradise—Far From Donald Trump or 2024 | Vanity Fair
Share or comment on this article: 
Inside Ivanka Trump's VERY lavish post-White House lifestyle in Miami
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
