Camilla's friend Petronella Wyatt brands Harry a 'hypocrite' for 'nasty potshots' on Queen Consort | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Camilla's friend Petronella Wyatt brands 'self-avowed feminist' Prince Harry a 'tremendous hypocrite' for 'nasty potshots' on the Queen Consort
'Self-proclaimed feminist' Harry is facing charges of 'tremendous' hypocrisy 
Duke of Sussex launched string of attacks on Queen Consort Camilla
He called her 'dangerous' and a 'villain' in US interview to plug his memoir
Camilla's friend Petronella Wyatt today said the duke made 'nasty potshots'
Speaking to GMB, she said of Harry's attack: 'So where is his feminism?'   
 10:48, 11 January 2023 
 15:49, 11 January 2023 
 is today facing charges of 'tremendous' and 'breathtaking' hypocrisy for making attacks on the character of his stepmother 
In an interview to plug his 
autobiography Spare, which contains a slew of allegations against members of the Royal Family including his father 
 sensationally branded the King's second wife a 'villain' and 'dangerous', accusing her of rehabilitating her image at the expense of his.
 by saying that he had 'huge compassion' for Camilla. However, r
oyal sources indicated Charles considers the prince's attacks on the Queen Consort to have crossed a 'red line'.
Speaking to ITV's Good Morning Britain today, Camilla's friend and journalist Petronella Wyatt blasted Harry's criticisms, accusing the duke - who she called a 'self-proclaimed feminist' - of hypocrisy by 'taking a very nasty potshot at a 75-year-old woman who can't answer back'.
Though she claimed that Charles will be 'devastated' by Harry's charges, Ms Wyatt said that the King 'will forgive his son anything' because he feels responsible 'for the way he's turned out'.
'Self-proclaimed feminist' Prince Harry is facing charges of 'tremendous hypocrisy' for making extraordinary and 'nasty' attacks on the character of his stepmother Queen Consort Camilla in his memoir
Speaking to ITV's Good Morning Britain today, Camilla's friend and journalist Petronella Wyatt blasted Harry's fierce criticisms of the Queen Consort
Prince Harry accuses royals of trying to 'undermine' his...
Prince Harry reveals the necklace William ripped off his...
Prince Harry laughs as he CONFIRMS he watches The Crown -...
Prince Harry mocks the monarchy: Duke ridicules royal...
'I think Harry is a tremendous hypocrite because he's a self-avowed feminist and yet he takes this very nasty potshot at a 75-year-old woman who can't answer back. So where is his feminism?', Ms Wyatt said.
'If anyone accused Meghan of scheming her way into marriage for the Royal Family... that creates howls from Harry, so why is he doing the same thing to Camilla? And why is he taking absolutely no responsibility for his own mistakes which were not leaked to the Press by Camilla?'
She continued: 'There was one example of a leak by one of her aides that was unintentional, and the aide was immediately sacked. But she has never ever briefed against her... she would never do that, she's a very very kind person, she's very sensitive where both the princes were concerned, and she's completely without ambition.'
Describing Harry's interviews as 'very inflammatory', Ms Wyatt said of the King: 'He adores Camilla and will be devastated here. 
'More so than Camilla, because Camilla will rise above it all, and keep smiling, get on with the job. She never indulges in self-pity. But Charles adores her and he will be deeply hurt. However, although they've said it's a red line, I believe that Charles will forgive Harry anything.
'It was said by royal sources that the red line he shouldn't cross was Camilla, he shouldn't attack Camilla. 
'But I honestly believe that Charles, who is a very decent man, will forgive his son anything and has a slight guilty complex with regard to the way he's turned out and behaved and perhaps blames himself a little.'
Ms Wyatt told GMB: 'I came to like Camilla very much because she's a very modest, no frills, down to earth person... the absolute opposite of a schemer. She wouldn't know how to scheme, she couldn't even spell it on a Scrabble board. She's genuinely one of the nicest people I've ever met.
'I've had no contact with the Palace, and other journalists I know have had no contact with the Palace. 
'The Palace have not said a word, and it's just an example of Harry's breathtaking hypocrisy and his deeming departure from reality.'
Though she claimed that Charles will be 'devastated' by Harry's charges, Ms Wyatt said that the King 'will forgive his son anything' because he feels responsible 'for the way he's turned out'
William and Harry viewing floral tributes to the late Queen at Windsor Castle
As the duke continued a run of promotional interviews, he said he 'would like nothing more' than for his children to have relationships with the Royal Family.
His remarks about his son and daughter came despite the criticism he has levelled at William Charles and Camilla.
In his first print interview about his autobiography, he told US magazine People that Archie, three, and 19-month-old Lili did have a connection with some of the Windsors, whom he did not name, saying this brought him 'great joy'.
He also described his late mother, Diana as his 'guardian angel' and said she is with him 'all the time'.
Bookshops in the UK opened early on Tuesday to offer Harry's book - but queues were sparse after leaks ahead of the publication.
It is being sold for £14, not the recommended retail price of £28, in places such as Waterstones and WH Smith as well as online at Amazon.
Just one person was waiting outside Waterstones' flagship branch in Piccadilly, central London, when it opened at 8am.
Caroline Lennon, 59, who had walked two miles from Bethnal Green in the East End to arrive at 6am, said: 'People will criticise me and say, "What an idiot for liking Harry. What an idiot for queuing up", but I don't care what anyone says.'
Other royal fans had queued for midnight store openings, with a handful waiting outside WH Smith in London's Victoria station to be among the first to buy a copy.
In his interview with People magazine, which featured a flattering photoshoot, Harry said of his book, which was ghost written by JR Moehringer: 'I don't want to tell anyone what to think of it, and that includes my family. This book and its truths are in many ways a continuation of my own mental health journey.
'It's a raw account of my life - the good, the bad and everything in between.'
William, Charles, Harry, Camilla, Kate, and Meghan leaving Westminster Abbey after attending the annual Commonwealth Service on March 9, 2020
Harry and Meghan arriving at Windsor Castle to view flowers and tributes to the late Queen on September 10, 2022 
Adding that he was hopeful for reconciliation, the duke said: 'I would love nothing more than for our children to have relationships with members of my family, and they do with some, which brings me great joy.'
Harry is known to be close to his cousin Princess Eugenie, who has visited him the US.
Archie and Lili are the grandchildren of the King, but live thousands of miles away from the Windsors in California, and the duke has confessed that he has not spoken to Charles in 'quite a while', and is not in text contact with William at the moment.
In his memoir the duke also revealed how the Duchess of Sussex was quizzed by the Queen about her opinion of Donald Trump the first time the two women met, but 'Meg thought politics a no-win game, so she changed the subject to Canada'.
He told how the former Suits star did not recognise the Duke of York, who was holding the Queen's handbag when he joined them, and thought he was the monarch's assistant.
Harry also recounted how a 'way too upset' William rang him to say 'Pa and Camilla's people had planted a story or stories about him and Kate and the kids'.
And the duke sparked shockwaves in an interview with ITV's Tom Bradby when he denied branding the Royal Family racist in his interview with Oprah Winfrey.
He blamed the stance on the British Press, with the claim arising after Meghan claimed an unnamed royal raised 'concerns' about how dark their unborn son's skin might be.
The 407-page book sees Harry expressing his frustration at being the 'spare to the heir', his anger at the UK media, his unresolved trauma over the death of his mother, his mental health struggles, his lonely life before meeting Meghan, and the breakdown of his family relationships.
Share or comment on this article: 
Camilla's friend Petronella Wyatt brands Harry a 'hypocrite' for 'nasty potshots' on Queen Consort
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
