MEGHAN MCCAIN: McCarthy is critically wounded, the GOP humiliated, Biden stronger. Good luck in 2024 | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
MEGHAN MCCAIN: Oh, what a circus - whatever happens next, McCarthy is critically wounded, the GOP is humiliated - and Biden and his steaming mess of a Dem party is stronger. Good luck in 2024!
 18:20, 4 January 2023 
 21:25, 4 January 2023 
There's a cancer in the 
 Party that has yet to be cut out.
In the sixth round of voting, stretching into a second day, 
 again failed to muster the votes necessary to be elected speaker of the House.
It is the first time in nearly a century that this has happened.
Weakened by an appalling midterm election debacle, McCarthy needed every Republican to back him — save four.
 in what can only be described as a complete and utter circus, a raw political drama that only the best reality TV can offer.
In this episode of Republican Dysfunction, the House MAGA caucus smelled blood in the water and pounced — like a jealous Real Housewife sensing her chance for revenge.
After publicly airing their grievances, members such as Congressman Matt Gaetz and Lauren Boebert, demanded concessions. Hamstrung, with his back against the wall, McCarthy conceded.
He gave them want they wanted, only to have it thrown back in his face.
What he should have realized is they're performance artists — not negotiating partners. With a compromise in hand, they moved the goalposts, reportedly demanding power that no members have ever been granted, something they knew McCarthy couldn't give them.
Weakened by an appalling midterm election debacle, McCarthy needed every Republican to back him — save four.
But compromise wasn't the point of this exercise – they wanted humiliation.
Like Donald Trump, his acolytes in Congress value nothing more than their own celebrity.
They probably prefer to be in the minority – it doesn't require much responsibility. In the minority, they can be outraged on cable TV and stoke their ever-shrinking base of supporters. They don't need to build coalitions or reach across the aisle. They only need to promote themselves and win re-election. To them, it doesn't matter if they're powerless.
But it does matter. They cannot advance the values they claim to champion on their own. That's not how democracy works. And that's the root of the disease the Republican Party has yet to shake.
Kevin McCarthy suffers his SIXTH defeat as Republicans fail...
MEGHAN MCCAIN: Kiss America goodbye, Harry and Meghan,...
The dragging of Kevin McCarthy is confirmation of all my worst fears. Evidence that the nihilism and thirst for chaos that defined the Trump-era is still alive and well in the GOP. The hangover lingers.
Now, I am no great fan of McCarthy. I'm still perplexed by his post-January 6th decision to come out very aggressively against Trump only to turn around a week later and meet with the ex-president to publicly make amends. I also thought his treatment of Congresswoman Liz Cheney was deplorable and unbecoming of someone who should be leading a big tent party.
But at the end of the day, there is no clear alternative to his speakership. He's all we have got. And politics is the art of the possible.
There is no other House member who could come close to corralling the 218 votes needed to become the next speaker. Congressmen Jim Jordan and Steve Scalise have made it clear they are not interested in the job.
At this point, who would be?
Time and time again, Republicans shoot themselves in the foot, distracting the American public from the steaming pile of mess the Democrat Party has left in the form of sky-high inflation, crime-ridden streets and ridiculous cultural conflicts.
McCarthy's deranged detractors offer no viable alternatives. They're only solution is to burn it all down and dance in the ashes, except this kamikaze mission brings everyone else down with them.
The only solace that one can take from this disaster is that Trump's personal influence has also been diminished by this whole ordeal.
Tuesday night, Trump appeared to stick the knife in the back of his on-again, off-again ally's back. He refused to back McCarthy amid the House turmoil, reportedly telling a reporter, 'We'll see what happens. We'll see how it all works out.'
Then Wednesday morning, Trump turned, posting, 'Republicans, do not turn a great triumph into a giant &amp; embarrassing defeat… Kevin McCarthy will do a good job, maybe even a great job – just watch!'
Faint praise to say the least, and obviously too little too late. The damage has been done.
But Trump also failed to have an impact.
In the end, even if McCarthy can whip enough votes to become speaker, he loses. He'll be critically wounded, limping over the finish line.
The GOP is stuck in neutral as the world moves on. And this only makes Democrats and President Biden appear stronger and more unified going into 2024.
A weak leader presiding over a small minority is not a recipe for success. Say what you want about Nancy Pelosi, strength and a steel grip on her caucus was not her problem.
But the GOP is stuck in neutral as the world moves on. And this only makes Democrats and President Biden appear stronger and more unified going into 2024.
Time and time again, Republicans shoot themselves in the foot, distracting the American public from the steaming pile of mess the Democrat Party has left in the form of sky-high inflation, crime-ridden streets and ridiculous cultural conflicts. There are very real and very serious issues facing our country that Republicans can easily confront, yet they cannibalize one another instead.
The identity of the next Republican speaker is now up in the air – a mortifying start to a GOP-majority House – revealing a divided, broken, sick party.
If they don't find the cure soon, 2024 may turn into a repeat of 2022.
But who cares right? The ratings are though the roof.
Share or comment on this article: 
MEGHAN MCCAIN: McCarthy is critically wounded, the GOP humiliated, Biden stronger. Good luck in 2024
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
