'Middle-class' neo-Nazi who encouraged another man to make a bomb is jailed for three years | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
She said YES! Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez are engaged - after a swoon-worthy proposal on his superyacht and a ginormous diamond to seal the deal
Madeleine McCann detectives begin new major search for missing toddler at Portuguese reservoir that suspect Christian Brueckner called his 'little paradise'
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
Teacher who bombarded 17-year-old schoolgirl with explicit messages on Snapchat and matched with her on dating app is banned from classroom for two years
Ray Stevenson dies at 58: Irish actor starred Marvel's Thor movies and the upcoming Star Wars series Ahsoka
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
So who could replace axed Phillip Schofield on This Morning? The runners and riders who might take over from Phil AND Holly after feud
'Phil was sacked. He and Holly deserve each other': Ex-This Morning star Eamonn Holmes tears into Willoughby and Schofield - as Dermot O'Leary and Alison Hammond pay 30-second tribute to axed host at start of today's show
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
Who's supporting who in Team Willoughby v Team Schofield? As Holly wins battle over the This Morning sofa, we reveal the feuding pair's rival camps - from the show's veteran editor Martin Frizell to head of daytime Emma Gormley and ITV boss Kevin Lygo
Body language expert reveals what Alison Hammond and Dermot O'Leary REALLY felt as they took over This Morning - as fans question brevity of Phillip Schofield tribute
So who do YOU think should replace Phil and Holly? Rylan Clark and Dermot O'Leary take the lead in MailOnline poll of who should appear on This Morning sofa
Revealed: The 15 best sandwiches of all time (and how to serve them) - with two vegan options making the cut
Moving swiftly on! Alison Hammond and Dermot O'Leary pay just 30 seconds tribute to Phillip Schofield on This Morning - as fans spot that his name has already been wiped from the show's credits
Warning to mobile banking customers over sinister 'shoulder surfing' method criminals use to gain access to victims' cash - with one target waking up to find £73,000 gone from his accounts
Retired colonel denies defrauding MoD out of £43,000 to pay for his children's boarding school fees and tells jurors he was not 'wedded' to the idea of private education
Is this the beginning of the end for LTNs? Now Sadiq Khan admits low-traffic neighbourhoods 'aren't perfect' and some may need REMOVING in London -
I'm an A&E consultant and this why I believe vapes should be be banned from shops
Are police finally cracking down on TikTok 'prankster'? Cops swoop on teenager's flat that he shares with his mum as outrage grows over clips of him storming homes at random, harassing women, stealing dogs and jumping into strangers' cars
The tiny changes in your voice that give away whether you are faking a sickie... and can be picked up by AI
How does YOUR town stack up? Study reveals the UK's mobile phone scam HOTSPOTS - so is your area on the list?
Drug drivers as young as 15 and as old as 77 are being caught high on cocaine and cannabis: 19,828 motorists were reported by police for taking illegal substances last year, DVLA figures show
Newcastle 0-0 Leicester LIVE: Foxes riding their luck as they look for vital win to boost their survival bid, with Toon hitting the post TWICE after Bruno Guimaraes escaped red for early lunge
'Middle-class' neo-Nazi who encouraged another man to make a bomb after sharing a video of his Amazon Alexa speaker reading out a recipe for explosives is jailed for three years
Middle-class Elliot Brown, 25, held views described by a judge as 'utterly vile'
He posted video to far-right chat group showing how to make explosive thermite
Brown was jailed for three years for dissemination of terrorist material today 
 15:42, 17 January 2023 
 15:42, 17 January 2023 
A middle-class extremist has been jailed for encouraging another man to make a bomb by sharing a video in which he used his Amazon Alexa speaker to read out a recipe for explosives.
Elliot Brown, 25, held views described by a judge as 'utterly vile' when he posted a video to a far-right chat group showing how to make the pyrotechnic explosive thermite.
Naomi Parsons, prosecuting said Brown was 'in his own words, a man from a middle-class background and well educated.'
He had been to a private school in Llanelli, South Wales and won a scholarship to an international school in Norway before studying politics and economics at Bath University.
Middle-class Elliot Brown (pictured), 25, held views described by a judge as 'utterly vile'
Brown was jailed for three years for dissemination of terrorist material today in court
Senior female banker at Deutsche Bank, 59, who was nicknamed...
George and Amal Clooney's Berkshire mansion is surrounded by...
Palliative care nurse who drunkenly crashed her Land Rover...
He dropped out of university during the pandemic and was working for a logistics company when he sent the video to a neo-Nazi chat group on Telegram on March 22 2020.
Police raided the home of Dean Morrice in Paulton, near Bristol on August 20 2020 and found enough aluminium powder, iron oxide, and magnesium ribbon in the kitchen to make 680g of thermite.
There was also enough carbon, potassium nitrate and sulphur, to make 1.3kg of gunpowder.
Morrice, who also had two 3-D printers and a digital recipe for making firearms, was later jailed for 18 years, after the court heard the 34-year-old father of four from Poulton, near Bath, was 'clearly leading a double life.'
Brown dropped out of university during the pandemic and was working for a logistics company
Police found vile material in chat room
Police discovered that Brown had posted the video into a Telegram chat group called 'Dart Heads' which was said to be obsessed with 'white genocide' and the 14-word neo-Nazi slogan: 'We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children.'
Brown had shared a copy of the audio book of Hitler's Mein Kampf and posted on June 5 2020, a couple of weeks after the murder of George Floyd by a white police officer in Minneapolis: 'It's happening, the race war is here.'
A user called Mercian Heart, responded: 'Our desires to go out and confront these servants of the Jews comes from our instinct to preserve our tribe and by extension the society around us.
'Find men in your area, study 4th gen warfare. train, organize, gather supplies, build yourselves. The time for action will be upon us soon enough. Gods be praised!'
A 10-second video found on Brown's phone showed him at a barbecue with some music in the back ground saying: 'All I wanted to do is grill, but these Jews they leave me no choice but to kill.'
Also on his phone, police found a 30-minute clip of a livestream of a shooting at a synagogue in Halle, Germany on 9 October 2019 made by Stephan Balliet and a 48-second video, which started as a video game, but switched to clips from the livestream shooting at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand by Brenton Tarrant.
An image on Brown's phone showed a screenshot labelled: 'Hail the saints! Never forget what they sacrificed for us' with images of Anders Breivik - responsible for the mass murder of children in Norway in 2011, Dylan Roof - who shot black people in a church in the US - and Brenton Tarrant.
On one of his mobile phones, police found a 30-second video containing audio instructions on how to make thermite which had been recorded by Brown, at his home, using his Amazon Alexa, and shared on Telegram, three days before Morrice bought the chemicals.
Thermite was described as a mixture which burns at several thousand degrees Celsius to produce molten metal.
Brown was arrested in February 2021 and, in court, admitted to having 'nationalist' political views and to being 'anti-Semitic, racist and a homophobe.'
A former air cadet, he said he was interested in militaria and survivalism and was a fan of Ray Mears and Bear Grylls.
Brown said he had joined the Conservative Party and UKIP before he became 'a bit fed up with politics in the UK.'
The video was made as a 'joke' to impress the 14 others in the group because he had been watching an internet meme in which people asked Alexa to do unusual things, he said.
However, he told Bristol Crown Court he was now 'ashamed, embarrassed and angry with myself' for subscribing to those views and had become a Christian.
Ms Parsons told the jury: 'Why not get Alexa to recite something else funny? The prosecution say that explosives were of interest to Mr Brown, and indeed to the others to whom he shared the video.'
Brown 'intended or, at the very least, was reckless,' that someone in the 'Dart Heads' Telegram group would be encouraged to commit a terrorist act.
'In Mr Brown's case, the proof is in the pudding. It must be an unfortunate coincidence that one of the recipients turned out to be the real deal, who purchased, within three days of the post, all the ingredients for thermite,' Ms Parsons said.
Jailing him for three years and three months, for possession and dissemination of terrorist material, Judge Anthony Leonard KC, told him: 'You were old enough and intelligent enough to know exactly what you were getting involved in.
'You spoke about attacking racial and ethnic minorities and, as a group, you aspired to create a fascist state. The exchanges in which you took part were utterly vile.'
He and his friends on the Darts Head chat group shared a neo-Nazi ideology, seeking to promote hatred and racial supremacy, the judge said.
The effect of posting the video was 'only too apparent' because Morrice 'immediately set about obtaining the igniter and ingredients for thermite,' the judge added.
Detective Superintendent Craig McWhinnie, head of Counter-Terrorism Police South West said: 'Elliot Brown was not just seeking to explore an interest in extremist related materials.
'The video he produced and thought appropriate to share with people harbouring similar abhorrent views will understandably shock people.'
Share or comment on this article: 
'Middle-class' neo-Nazi who encouraged another man to make a bomb is jailed for three years
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
