King Charles escapes criticism from Prince  Harry's tell-all book | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Now for MEGHAN'S Memoir! Royal Family faces fresh onslaught with Duchess of Sussex 'set to release her own tell-all book' - after Harry's upcoming autobiography, which 'lets Charles off lightly but is so tough on William the brothers won't EVER reconcile'
Prince Harry's autobiography, Spare, is his story of his life as the second son 
Reports from the US West Coast suggest Meghan is planning to tell her story 
A top Hollywood agent said he would be shocked if Meghan did not write a book
A source said she is planning to 'leave no stone unturned' about being a royal
Caroline Graham For The Mail On Sunday In Los Angeles
 01:39, 1 January 2023 
 02:35, 1 January 2023 
The Royal Family is bracing itself for a fresh onslaught with Meghan Markle now set to release her own memoir, according to reports.
The Duchess of Sussex is said to be preparing a tell-all book, hot on the heels of Prince Harry's upcoming autobiography, Spare.
His book will reportedly see King Charles III escape severe criticism, but is so tough on Prince William that insiders fear the brothers won't be able to reconcile their relationship afterwards.
According to The Times, a source said: 'Generally, I think the book [will be] worse for them than the 
The Duchess of Sussex, pictured with her husband, is planning to write her own autobiography which will leave 'no stone unturned' about life as a royal according to sources in Hollywood
Prince Harry's book, Spare, is due to be released on Tuesday, January 10
Nearly HALF the British public want Prince Harry to be...
Why an over-sized suit is the new royal must-have! Princess...
Abroad, Harry is The Other or Spare Wheel! 
It is  one of the most eagerly anticipated books of 2023, but despite the dramatic title, In The Shadow isn't the latest bestseller from Harlan Coben or Lee Child.
In fact En La Sombra is the Spanish translation of Prince Harry's memoir, Spare. The title refers to his role as a spare Prince, unlike William who is heir to the throne.
In addition to its English editions, the book – due out on January 10 – has been translated into 15 other languages. The Dutch, Romanian and German editions translate the title as Reserve, while the Greek translation can also be the word for a car's spare wheel.
The French title is Le Suppleant – or Substitute, while in Italian it is subtitled Il Minore – The Minor or The Younger.
Sweden's version is Den Andre – The Second or The Other. Likewise, in Poland it is Ten Drugi – The Other One. Poignantly, in Brazil it is What's Left Over.
Prince Harry's book has been translated into different languages for the international market
'Everything is laid bare. Charles comes out of it better than it had expected, but it's tough on William, in particular, and even Kate gets a bit of a broadside. There are these minute details, and a description of the fight between the brothers. I personally can't see how Harry and William will be able to reconcile after this.'  
After the couple delivered a salvo of explosive claims in their recent 
's new autobiography Spare is expected to stir up yet further controversy.
The series' allegations of racism and unfair treatment of Meghan have left the Royal Family reeling, and the situation seems certain to worsen with the publication of Harry's book in nine days' time.
But now reports have emerged that Meghan is to publish her own bombshell memoir.
According to one source, the Duchess of Sussex 'is contemplating getting entirely candid about her time in the Royal limelight… and leaving no stone unturned'.
In 2021 the couple reportedly signed a four-book deal with publishers Penguin Random House.
Prince Harry is said to have received a $20 million advance for Spare. Meghan has already released her children's book The Bench with the same publisher, and it is rumoured that the couple are working on a 'wellness' book. Now it is believed the mystery fourth book will be Meghan's autobiography.
A bestselling memoir would put Meghan in a well-trodden American political tradition, amid much speculation that she may have ambitions for elected office, given her outspoken views on women's rights and other issues.
A Hollywood agent told The Mail on Sunday: 'I would find it surprising if Meghan didn't publish her own story, to be honest. Spare is clearly Prince Harry's chance to tell his, but hers is equally compelling. I mean, how many actresses end up marrying a Prince?'
The source added: 'If she's harbouring political ambitions it would make even more sense,' pointing out that Presidents Clinton, Obama and Trump all wrote books setting out their beliefs before launching bids for the White House.
A bestselling memoir would put Meghan in a well-trodden American political tradition, amid much speculation that she may have ambitions for elected office, given her outspoken views on women's rights and other issues
A Hollywood agent told The Mail on Sunday: 'I would find it surprising if Meghan didn't publish her own story, to be honest. Spare is clearly Prince Harry's chance to tell his, but hers is equally compelling. I mean, how many actresses end up marrying a prince?'
The agent added: 'If she's harbouring political ambitions it would make even more sense,' the source added, pointing out that Presidents Clinton, Obama and Trump all wrote books setting out their beliefs before launching White House bids'
The Duchess, a Democrat, has become close to America's 'political royalty', the Kennedy family, and was honoured last month alongside her husband with an award from the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights non-profit organisation.
The organisation's leader Kerry Kennedy – niece of former US president John F. Kennedy – said the Sussexes received the award for their stand against 'structural racism' within the Royal Family.
Meghan is also good friends with feminist icon Gloria Steinem who is still closely involved in liberal politics. A friend of Ms Steinem's said: 'Meghan has strong views very much in alignment with Gloria's in terms of social justice and women's rights. Gloria is encouraging her to make her voice heard.'
But some have warned that the Sussexes may be in danger of overexposure.
One senior Hollywood executive said: 'We've had the Oprah Winfrey interview, then the Netflix series and now we've got Harry's book. You have to ask if the world really needs to hear Meghan's story right now? If I was advising her I would caution against releasing a book too quickly because there is a very real danger that people will start experiencing 'Sussex fatigue'.
'There comes a point where people might feel they've heard the same stories too many times. They have to change the narrative at some stage and focus on the future rather than past transgressions.'
Meanwhile, Harry's book has been billed as being written with 'raw, unflinching honesty'.
The Duke is set to launch a publicity blitz next Sunday with an interview on America's flagship 60 Minutes show.
He will also be interviewed by ITV's Tom Bradby in the UK.
Meghan Markle tops poll of celebrities people are sick of - with her husband Prince Harry in second, Oprah third, Amber Heard fourth and James Corden fifth
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have been branded the most annoying celebs of 2022 - just weeks after the release of their splashy, multimillion-dollar Netflix special that criticized the royal family.
 split from the royal family dominated headlines in 2020 - each snagged a spot on Ranker's recently released
, with the Duchess of Sussex leading the list of figures readers have reportedly grown weary of.
The dubious distinctions for the duo is markedly more pronounced than where they placed earlier in the year, when Markle was booked as low as the 20th spot, while her husband, faring slightly little better, was pegged at no. 23. 
Names to round out the top top ten this year included 
Oprah Winfrey - whose interview of the couple last year saw Markle claim royals had 'concern' over her sons' skin color - as well as 
, Kim Kardashian and several other polarizing personalities.
That said, in a list that, unlike the Sussexes, also included stars who saw their reputations come into question this year - such as Kanye West and Ellen DeGeneres - the Sussex squad was still 
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have been branded the most annoying celebs - just weeks after the release of their multimillion-dollar Netflix special criticizing the royal family
 As of Saturday morning, the Ranker article indicates that Meghan, a 41-year-old actress who starred on USA's Suits, received a total of 24,201 votes out of the more than 416,000 votes cast. Voting, which is tabulated in real time, closed Saturday.  
Harry, on the other hand, received an almost stark 21,492 votes - both serving as more than five percent of the nearly half a million votes received.
Nearly HALF the British public want Prince Harry to be...
Why an over-sized suit is the new royal must-have! Princess...
The results - which come from across the globe - indicate that the public have grown fed-up with 
the royal couple, who since relocating to the US  have managed to stay in the limelight through a seemingly endless swathe of TV spots.
 in March of last year, Meghan claimed her sister-in-law Kate Middleton left her in tears after a clash about bridesmaids dressed ahead of the actress' wedding.
Meghan and Harry's claims were commented on a slew of journalists and aristocrats who appeared in productions such as Meghan at 40: The Climb to Power and the more recent Harry &amp; Meghan, released on December 15 after two years of the couple dominating national headlines.
Speaking to Winfrey, Markle claimed 
that she was 'silenced' by The Firm when she aired her concerns, which spurred her and Harry to finally take the step to leave the Palace.
Julie Montagu, who was born in 
 but moved to the UK 16 years ago when she married the son of the 11th Earl of Sandwich, said that Meghan's struggle with her in-laws came from an inability to 'let go' of her dreams of success as a celebrity figure.
Markle struggled to 'switch off' the American dream' and understand her 'duty was to the Queen' an aristocrat claimed in one of several recent productions about the Duchess and her husband Harry. Meghan and the Queen are pictured in 2018 at Buckingham Palace 
'You can't really be anything you want to be or do anything you want to do or say anything you want to say,' Viscountess Hinchingbrooke explained.
'Your duty is to the Queen and that's very difficult for someone like Meghan.
'To switch off that American dream off and accept "now you have to do what we say" is difficult.'
As for the rest of the list, it appeared that the hundreds of thousands of Ranker voters, in addition to their weariness of the not-so-camera-shy couple, would also like to hear less from those giving them a platform.
That includes Winfrey, whose daytime show has been off the air for more than a decade.
Names to round out the top top ten this year included Oprah Winfrey - whose interview of the couple last year saw Markle claim royals had 'concern' over her sons' skin color 
In the couple's interview with Oprah Winfrey in 2021, they said someone in the royal family made a remark about the skin tone of their son, Archie
However, her blockbuster-interview of the royals seemingly came as enough to catapult the 68-year-old near the top of the heat at No. 3 on the poll, while late-night talk-show host James Corden, who has also interviewed the couple several times over the past year on his late-night show, earned the fifth spot.
The comedian, who also hails from Britain and lives close to Harry and Meghan's sprawling Montecito mansion, has also faced criticism this year for allegedly grifting material from other comics such as Ricky Gervais.
Also gracing the top ten was Ellen DeGeneres, another Montecito neighbor, who came in sixth. DeGeneres, who said goodbye to her longtime spot on daytime programming in May, interview the couple in November of last year, a few months before her final taping.
The 64-year-old show host has also come under fire in recent years for allegedly allowing a 'toxic' work culture to take root behind the scenes of her hit show, with DeGeneres herself accused of treating staff particularly poorly.   
No. 5 James Corden, who also hails from Britain and lives close to Harry and Meghan's sprawling Montecito mansion, has also faced criticism this year for allegedly grifting material from other comics 
Pals: Harry previously appeared as a guest on The Late Late Show shortly after he moved to Los Angeles with Meghan
Aquaman star Heard's largely failed defamation battle against ex Johnny Depp saw her steal the four-spot, while figures like Chrissy Teigen - who came in eighth - and West and ex-wife Kardashian, also made it into the top ten.
Kardashian, long a stalwart on such lists, was joined by West after he was largely canceled this year for rants disparaging Jewish people, while Heard became the target of ire in the wake of the libel trial involving her ex-husband which raked over their marriage.
Oddly enough, the last person to make the top ten was Hilaria Baldwin, the wife of A-lister Alec Baldwin, who has been news after he fatally shot cinematographer Halyna Hutchins on the set of his Western film, 'Rust,' in late 2021.
Amber Heard's failed defamation suit against Johnny Depp saw her steal the four-spot, while figures like Chrissy Teigen, Kanye West and ex-wife Him Kardashian, also made it in the top ten
Baldwin, 64, has spent the past year proclaiming his innocence in the accidental incident. It is not clear why his 
Instagram influencer wife - who is not nearly famous as the other listees - made the top ten, other than because of her marriage to the star.
This list, now closed, was posted at the beginning of 2022 and accepted votes over the past two months.
Other names to make it included Lady Gaga, Will Smith and Dawyne Johnson, and music moguls like Jay-Z, Beyonce, and Billie Eilish.   
Share or comment on this article: 
King Charles escapes criticism from Prince  Harry's tell-all book
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
