Scottish teacher loses discrimination case after claiming boss targeted her | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
Rioters burn and overturn cars and hurl fireworks and paving stones at police as hundreds take to the streets on Cardiff estate after 'serious crash'
Christian is banned from teaching for misgendering a trans pupil 'in first case of its kind in UK' as he reveals he is 'devastated' by ruling and plans to appeal
Parkrun's gender self-ID lets men 'smash women's records to smithereens', former Olympic marathon runner claims
Police arrest man, 18, on suspicion of causing a public nuisance following investigation into vile TikTok 'pranks'
Signal failure: Free wi-fi on trains faces being scrapped to save money as the Department for Transport says operators need to 'justify the business case for it'
Buckingham Palaces refuses to return remains of Ethiopia's 'stolen prince' who is buried in Windsor Castle grounds
I had Covid more than two years ago and I still from suffer chronic nausea and crippling bowel problems
Piers Morgan slams daytime TV for being 'infested by a pack of savages' after Phillip Schofield axing from This Morning as insiders believe presenter could make clean break from ITV
Inside Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford's bitter feud with Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby - after GB News presenter claimed former This Morning host was 'sacked'
DAN WOOTTON reveals how Phillip Schofield's fate was sealed after ITV bosses feared furious A-listers would sabotage him live on air - and the REAL reason behind his final falling out with Holly Willoughby
Rochelle Humes pays tribute to Phillip Schofield and thanks presenter for being 'a fountain of knowledge and laughter' after his axing from This Morning
So who do YOU think should replace Phil and Holly? Rylan Clark and Dermot O'Leary take the lead in MailOnline poll of who should appear on This Morning sofa
NADINE DORRIES: Sorry, but I don't feel a shred of pity for Phillip Schofield... The This Morning presenter was always looking for a 'gotcha' moment to propel him to the top of the day's news
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: He sang about a 'successful fella' who 'lives in a very big house in the country' in his 1995 hit Country House... Now Blur frontman Damon Albarn has upset his parish council with a 'noisy eyesore' at his huge farmhouse in Devon
E. Jean Carroll seeks 'very substantial' damages for Trump's comments about her at CNN town hall with Kaitlan Collins - two weeks after winning $5million in defamation lawsuit
I'm an A&E consultant and this why I believe vapes should be be banned from shops
Plot to drive out equality chief who's standing up for women: Whistleblowers at human rights commission reveal boss is facing 'witch hunt' from trans lobby
How a gender battle engulfed Britain's equalities watchdog: Baroness faced backlash from left-wing MPs after publicly backing female-only spaces
ANDREW PIERCE: The 5ft heroine standing up to a campaign of hatred by the militant trans lobby
DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Who are the real bullies in trans row?
Montana signs bill defining sex as either male or female: Governor Greg Gianforte makes his state the fourth in the nation to declared gender binary in dozens of state documents
Sealed with a kiss! Sarah Ferguson's goddaughter ties the knot in a lavish wedding celebration in Ibiza
EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: If Prince Harry thought he had a bad seat at King Charles' Coronation, spare a thought for Mike Tindall who was on the row behind
Scottish teacher loses discrimination case after claiming boss targeted her because she 'believed in the Union' and described independence from the UK as 'catastrophic'
Lyndsay Gibb insisted her headteacher had a 'personal vendetta' against her
She attempted to sue Dumfries and Galloway Council over Ms Alicia Reid 
The tribunal ruled her view doesn't constitute as a philosophical belief
School managers said Mrs Gibb was trying to form a witch hunt to Ms Reid
 18:16, 20 December 2022 
 18:16, 20 December 2022 
A Scottish teacher has lost a discrimination case after she claimed she was targeted by her headteacher after she described independence from the UK as 'catastrophic'.
Lyndsay Gibb a teacher at Stranraer Academy insisted the headteacher Alicia Reid had a 'personal vendetta' against her because she 'passionately' believed in the Union. 
Mrs Gibb, who describes herself as 'a proud Scot and a proud Brit', was accused of telling pupils 'Ms Reid is simply at the Academy to tick boxes, to qualify her for a better job in 
Managers at the school said Mrs Gibb was 'undoubtedly spearheading and actively trying to recruit vocal teachers, support staff, parents and even young people attending the school to form a disruptive voice as part of a witch hunt to remove our new headteacher'.
Alicia Reid, headteacher of Stranraer Academy in Wigtownshire, was accused of having a personal vendetta against Lyndsay Gibb for her strong views about Scottish independence and how she believes it would be catastrophic 
 Lyndsay Gibb a teacher at Stranraer Academy, who describes herself as 'a proud Scot and a proud Brit', insisted the headteacher Alicia Reid had a 'personal vendetta' against her because she 'passionately' believed in the Union. But Mrs Gibb was accused of telling pupils 'Ms Reid is simply at the Academy to tick boxes, to qualify her for a better job in Glasgow' and spearheading a witch hunt to have the new headteacher removed
Teacher who was sacked 'after refusing to call schoolgirl,...
Primary school teacher who asked a pupil to sit on his knee...
She was given a final written warning by the school in September 2020.
Mrs Gibb later went off work with stress amid contractual disputes, but returned to work in November 2021.
She attempted to sue Dumfries and Galloway Council, which runs the school, but an employment tribunal dismissed her case.
The tribunal ruled her view doesn't actually constitute as a philosophical belief, and that in no way did Ms Reid harass her as she wasn't even aware of Mrs Gibb's politics.
The English teacher said: 'Scotland can only ensure social justice by remaining part of the UK as opposed to being independent'. 
The Glasgow Employment Tribunal heard Mrs Gibb began working at Stranraer Academy in 2000 and that her concerns about 'division' in Scotland became stronger in 2014 in the lead up to referendum.
A tribunal report said: 'Mrs Gibb is staunch opponent of nationalism in any form and is also a vociferous opponent of Scottish separatism.
'She believes very strongly in social justice and the importance of it in society and feels very strongly that Scotland can only ensure social justice by remaining part of the UK. (as opposed to being independent).
'She believes that if Scotland were independent it would not be capable of taking fiscal responsibility; that an independent Scotland could not fund social justice; and that it would be 'catastrophic' if Scotland were separate from the UK.
'She believes that the SNP fosters 'division' through 'their faux-socialism and uncosted promises of a land of milk and honey post-Scexit'.
'This is what 'forced her to become a tactical voter for the party most likely to keep Scotland away from the terrifying cliff-edge of separation'.
'Mrs Gibb herself as a 'remainer' who was 'devastated' by Brexit, because she believes that it is 'better that people have as many connections with humanity as they can'.
'She strongly believes that Scotland should remain part of Europe; and that Scotland would not be 'allowed in' if it were independent.
She is concerned about 'the divisions created between those who want certain things because it is not just about rights but about personal responsibility as well'.
'It is because of her concerns about those divisions and her view that Scotland could not ensure social justice unless it remains part of the UK, that she would not vote for any political party which supports independence.'
Mrs Gibb voted Conservative despite having little allegiance to the party to try to ensure Scottish independence and to vote tactically against the SNP, it was heard.
She added: 'If Scexit happens it would be hugely detrimental.'
The tribunal heard that in December 2019, a month after Ms Reid joined the school, a retirement party was thrown for a teacher, and during a speech a colleague made a joke about Mrs Gibb voting Conservative.
Mrs Gibb claimed the 'turning point' for Ms Reid targeting her was following the retirement party.
She claimed Ms Reid mistreated her during a staff meeting in January 2020, at parent council meetings, and at meetings about trying to promote good pupil behaviour 
The pair clashed about their views on detention and contractual issues, it was heard.
In 2020, Mrs Gibb was said to have led a 'witch hunt' against Ms Reid and send the school into 'melt down' by bombarding Facebook with posts.
At the tribunal, Employment Judge Muriel Robison dismissed her case, ruling that she views on Scottish independence were opinions rather than a true belief.
Judge Robison said: 'Focusing on the belief that 'Scotland can only ensure social justice by remaining part of the UK as opposed to being independent', there was... insufficient evidence led by Mrs Gibb to support any conclusion that this is a philosophical belief.
'We conclude that her belief, that the only way to fund social justice was to remain part of the United Kingdom, and that it could not be achieved in an independent Scotland, is an opinion which she holds which is not indicative of a qualifying belief.
'She gave little or no evidence to show how she manifested her belief that social justice in particular could only be achieved through Scotland as part of a United Kingdom.
'She gave no concrete examples of how such a belief manifested itself in how she lived her day-to-day life beyond campaigning against independence and for the continued existence of the United Kingdom around elections and referendums.
'We have concluded that Ms Reid did not know Mrs Gibb held the belief that she did.
'It is clear that there was no 'personal vendetta' as Mrs Gibb suggested at the time.'
Share or comment on this article: 
Scottish teacher loses discrimination case after claiming boss targeted her
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
