Top Republican urges Kyrsten Sinema to caucus with GOP as Dems refuse to back her | Daily Mail Online
            
\n      
\n      We see that you\'re using an ad blocker\n      
\n      
Can you please advise whether or not you\'re using an adblocker to Fabio.Manera@mailonline.co.uk using the form below. Many thanks
\n      
\n        
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
adblocker not in use (please provide your email address)
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n            
\n          
\n          
\n            
\n          
\n        
\n      
What made Tom lose his calm in Cannes? Hanks and wife Rita Wilson wildly remonstrate with a red carpet staffer at Cannes premiere of Asteroid City
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after police called in over his lockdown diaries
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy boarding make cheap fares soar
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President tomorrow on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to end months of speculation by confirming his 2024 White House bid to set up a mouth-watering battle with Trump
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Are these the further pointers that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the Royal Lodge to the smaller Frogmore Cottage?
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for thousands
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest at Algarve reservoir suspect Christian Brueckner considered his 'little paradise'
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their favourite brew with them whenever they go abroad
Judge refuses Prince Harry's latest challenge against Home Office over its refusal to let him pay for police protection because Met's 'limited number' of highly trained officers 'who put themselves in harm's way' should 'not be made available for payment'
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will cease to exist
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as ministers look to head off criticism surrounding record levels of immigration
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented musician who began his career with a teenage John Lennon in The Quarrymen
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims she was assaulted by paedophile three times when she was 16 breaks her silence after disgraced star's death
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild Goop gift guide that also lists $12,000 Rolex and $64,000 Arctic Circle trip
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on Instagram and WhatsApp REALLY mean, as Holly Willoughby posts a cryptic pink heart
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before fatal crash that sparked Cardiff riots' - after cops disputed claims that 'chase' was to blame for the death of two teenagers
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing resilience of the British economy... Six weeks after the IMF ordained the UK as the basketcase of the G7
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left colleagues 'disgusted'
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take his own life, inquest rules
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness surge - and Americans are now driving a boom in UK foreign home sales
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old Samantha Lee won an army of admirers on her OnlyFans page... and uploaded a new post as hearing prepared to deliver its gross misconduct verdict
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne Couzens' flashing and then lied about it DID commit gross misconduct, panel finds
Top Republican urges Kyrsten Sinema to side with the GOP - as Democrats refuse to say whether they will back her or rival Ruben Gallego in 2024 Arizona race
Senator John Thune is urging Sinema to caucus with the Republicans
Democrats claim it's 'too soon' to say whether they will support a reelection bid 
Katelyn Caralle, U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com
 15:19, 24 January 2023 
 16:50, 24 January 2023 
Republicans now want Senator Kyrsten Sinema to caucus with them in the upper chamber after she left the 
 last month to become an independent.
Senator John Thune, the Republican Whip and one of Sinema's closest allies in 
, is urging the Arizona lawmaker to caucus with the 
 rather than Democrats in the closely split 51-49 Senate.
It comes as members of Sinema's old party won't say whether or not they would support a reelection run from the independent or if they will back Democratic Representative Ruben Gallego, who 
 for the Senate seat on Monday.
Sinema has not yet announced whether she will run for reelection in the 2024 race.
Republicans are urging Senator Kyrsten Sinema to caucus with them as Democrats refused to say whether they will support a reelection bid in 2024 after she changed her party affiliation to independent
Democrats insist it's too early to say what candidates they would endorse in Arizona's Senate race – even though the entire political world is already analyzing how the party's campaign landscape is looking for the next election cycle.
'We haven't been thinking about that. That's down the road,' Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC) Chair Gary Peters told Punchbowl News.
'Senator Sinema is a friend of mine, and I don't know if she's planning on running or what her intentions are, and I don't want to get out in front of what she wants to do,' the Michigan Democratic senator added.
Meanwhile, Thune is urging Sinema to wander even further from the Democratic Party by caucusing with Republicans under her new independent party affiliation.
Democrat Ruben Gallego officially announces bid to take on...
South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem says her cell phone was HACKED...
Fabulist congressman George Santos now claims he was an...
House Democratic leader's daughter accused of spray painting...
'Obviously we'd love to have her become a Republican or at least caucus [with] Republicans. That would make things a little more clear,' the South Dakota senator said.
He told reporters when asked Monday if he would support a Republican candidate over Sinema: 'We'll see. We'll cross that bridge when we come to it.
'A lot of Republicans [are] talking about' running in Arizona's Senate race, Thune noted.
Senator John Thune is urging Sinema to caucus with the GOP, saying it would make it a lot clearer on who Republicans should back in a 2024 Arizona Senate race
Rank-and-file Democrats, along with those in leadership, say it's too early to say who they will support in the 2024 Arizona Senate race. Senators Peters and Durbin are among those who won't say if they will support Sinema over Democratic Rep. Ruben Gallego
Sinema, who was considered one of the most moderate Democrats over the last several years, has worked closely with GOP colleagues on a flurry of issues like infrastructure, taxes and gun violence.
The Arizona senator made it abundantly clear when announcing her party affiliation switch last month that she was an independent, and would not caucus with Republicans.
In November 2021 – just over a year before her announcement – Sinema said she was not switching parties any time soon, which proved to be untrue just 13 months later.
'No. Why would I do that?' Sinema questioned during a rare sit-down interview with Politico when asked if she would consider defecting to the GOP.
 Democratic Representative Ruben Gallego for the 3rd district of Arizona released a video on Twitter on Monday announcing his run for the U.S. Senate in Arizona. Sinema has not yet said whether she will run for reelection in 2024
Democratic Senators who spoke with Punchbowl said they haven't thought about whether they would support Sinema in a reelection bid – especially now that Gallego is in the running.
'It's way too soon to get into that,' the Senate's No. 2 Democrat Dick Durbin of Illinois said. 'We don't even know who's going to file for any office in any state at this point.'
Sinema's Arizona colleague Senator Mark Kelly said: 'I've worked very closely with Sen. Sinema for a long period of time. She's a very effective member. But I'm not going to get ahead of her on 2024, or anybody else.'
The Democrat added that he wants to 'put politics aside' and won't 'get ahead of anybody.'
Sinema's situation has launched Democrats into a precarious dynamic and has opened the door to a three-way general election race.
DSCC vice chair Senator Tin Smith laughed when asked if she would support Sinema, repeating the dodge that it's too early to weigh-in.
'We don't even know what Sen. Sinema's plans are. She's my colleague,' Smith noted.
It's far from early to start thinking about 2024 – 
Donors, activists, lawmakers, lobbyists and everyone else in politics is looking at who to give money to in the next election cycle, which is undeniably underway.
Sinema, before her party switch, was considered one of the most moderate Democrats, along with West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin (left). The two have faced a lot of criticism within the party for their opposition to much of President Joe Biden's agenda
More 'moderate' Democrats, however, have already said they would likely support Sinema if she does decide to mount a reelection bid.
Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia said he's 'totally supportive' of Sinema.
He also claimed the Democratic Party's leaders 'should support someone who brings basically some peace, if you will, or some rational thinking on some of this stuff without being pushed far left and far right.'
Senator John Hickenlooper of Colorado shared the same sentiment.
'I don't always agree with her, but I think having a voice like that — she says what she thinks,' the failed 2020 presidential candidate said. 'And I think she adds value to the caucus.
'She's caucusing with Democrats,' the Colorado senator added. 'The problem is she's too moderate as a Democrat — well, that's half the time what they say about me!
'I can't imagine not supporting her,' Hickenlooper said.
Senators Angus King and Bernie Sanders are also two independent lawmakers who caucus with Democrats and have earned the backing of the party in their races despite not having official party affiliation.
Gallego's entrance into the 2024 Senate race has complicated things for Democrats, especially those who have not been as vocal in their criticism of Sinema for blocking much of President Joe Biden's agenda.
The Arizona representative released a three-and-a-half-minute announcement video on Monday entering the race.
He only once specifically called out Sinema's name, saying he needs help from supporters to take her seat in the Senate – but took several other veiled swipes at the sitting senator.
Share or comment on this article: 
Top Republican urges Kyrsten Sinema to caucus with GOP as Dems refuse to back her
The comments below have not been moderated.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Raving Private Ryan! Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson remonstrate with a red carpet staffer as they attend the...
Boris threatens to SUE Government over Covid 'stitch-up': Ex-PM Johnson 'livid' with Cabinet Office after...
Flight extras that TRIPLE the cost of your budget break: How expensive add-ons like hold luggage and speedy...
Ron DeSantis will announce his run for President TOMORROW on Twitter with Elon Musk: Florida Governor set to...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: There are further indications that King Charles is not coercing Prince Andrew out of the...
Check your Twitter NOW: Bug sees deleted tweets reshared for some users - potentially causing headache for...
Madeleine McCann cops take 'a number of bags' away from search site as they focus on four areas of interest...
Going on holiday? Brits love to take their tea bags... half of holidaymakers like to take a box of their...
Prince Harry faces &pound;500,000 legal bill after High Court defeat: Royal loses bid to be able to pay for his...
SARAH VINE: There's a new type of cultural mafia in town. If we don't stand up to them, free speech will...
MAYA FORSTATER: This is a despicable witch-hunt by the trans lobby against a fine and principled woman&nbsp;
Rishi Sunak heralds the 'biggest ever crackdown on migration' as he tightens rules on student visas as...
Should you join rush of homeowners putting solar panels on their roofs to beat the energy bill squeeze?&nbsp;
The Beatles' 'first left-handed bass player' Chas Newby dies aged 81... as tributes pour in for the talented...
'Very few of us escape the impact of evil people... for me it was Rolf Harris': BBC Radio host who claims...
So much for aftershave and socks! Gwyneth Paltrow recommends giving dads a SEX TOY for Father's Day in wild...
Do YOU know the true meaning of emoji? From a 'shy' finger point to a 'backstabber' snake - what symbols on...
Police face watchdog probe as CCTV emerges 'showing officers in van following boys on e-bike minutes before...
ALEX BRUMMER: A humiliating U-turn by forecasters who never get it right in the face of the continuing...
Met Police give 'final warning' to two officers who shared sick meme about Sarah Everard's kidnap that left...
Grenfell fire investigator who died after overdosing as he struggled with his divorce did NOT intend to take...
San Francisco's millionaire tech entrepreneurs are quitting the city for London as crime and homelessness...
The ex-Met cop turned 'Officer Naughty' who bungled the probe into Wayne Couzens' flashing: How 29-year-old...
'Officer Naughty' Ex-Met policewoman with OnlyFans porn account who failed to properly investigate Wayne...
Wayne Couzens could have been arrested for flashing YEARS before he murdered Sarah Everard - but a sergeant...
IOPC calls for national system to flag when an officer is under criminal investigation in the wake of...
'Racist' police squad members pinned up a poster of bare chested men with shaved heads doing a Nazi salute,...
Homeless families being housed in Travelodge face being moved out when Beyonc&eacute; tour begins after council...
Final photos of paedophile TV star Rolf Harris: Disgraced entertainer poses next to his wife Alwen and with...
Rolf Harris's death certificate reveals he died TWO WEEKS ago of neck cancer and 'frailty of old age' at his...
Six neck cancer warning signs revealed after death of paedophile TV presenter Rolf Harris&nbsp;
Rolf Harris death: Latest news as disgraced paedophile TV host dies aged 93 after battling neck cancer as...
Inside Rolf Harris's friendship with Jimmy Savile: How pair appeared on episode of Jim'll Fix It and joked...
CHRISTOPHER STEVENS on the pervert who hid in plain sight: When Rolf Harris was arrested for child sex...
Twisted paedophile Rolf Harris dismissed his abuse victims as 'slimy little worms' and boasted how he wanted...
The pathetic final days of disgraced TV star Rolf Harris - with the wife who refused to believe he was evil:...
Key to longevity? Breathe LESS oxygen: Study extends lifespans of mice by 50% by restricting intake of the...
Staggering 1,900 minors were abused by Catholic Church clergy in Illinois since 1950, shocking new state...
EXCLUSIVE: Katy Perry is ready to QUIT American Idol after facing FURIOUS backlash all season - and believes...
Bridezilla is SLAMMED after accusing her own sister of getting pregnant to 'deliberately take attention away...
Why you can no longer trust your state pension is correct: SIR STEVE WEBB warns all women to double check...
SALLY SORTS IT: EE cancelled my contract after I complained about listening to foreign music while on hold
Sailing through scandal in style! FEMAIL lays bare how billionaire Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez beat bitter...
JACI STEPHEN: Yes, she's full to the brim with plastic and pump. Yes, her dirty laundry has been aired so...
Innocent man wrongly accused of Nikki Allan's 1992 murder breaks his silence: Neighbour cleared at trial...
Moment man who 'murdered girlfriend's son, 9, during lockdown' is arrested trying to board a train just...
Suella Braverman speeding row is a 'witch-hunt', the Home Secretary's allies claim as Labour steps up calls...
Earth 'is closer to another mass extinction than we thought': Almost half the planet's species are...
Bank of England blames the WEATHER for wildly underestimating inflation in forecasts as it admits 'very big'...
My Daily Horoscope: What does May 24 2023 hold for MY star sign? Oscar Cainer tells all&nbsp;
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday &amp; Metro Media Group
Do not sell or share my personal information
