UK rail strikes: unions agree to work with operators towards revised pay offer | Rail strikes | The Guardian
RMT and TSSA meet Rail Delivery Group in effort to break deadlock over jobs and conditions
Rail and ambulance strikes: when is industrial action planned?
The Guardian - Back to home
RMT general secretary Mick Lynch: ‘No new pay deal offered yet.’
RMT general secretary Mick Lynch: ‘No new pay deal offered yet.’
 This article is more than 
UK rail strikes: unions agree to work with operators towards revised pay offer
This article is more than 4 months old
RMT and TSSA meet Rail Delivery Group in effort to break deadlock over jobs and conditions
Rail and ambulance strikes: when is industrial action planned?
Thu 12 Jan 2023 17.31 GMT
First published on Thu 12 Jan 2023 15.00 GMT
Union leaders have agreed to work jointly with train operating companies on a revised pay offer after a meeting to resolve the long-running dispute over remuneration, jobs and conditions.
Representatives from the RMT and TSSA unions met on Thursday with the Rail Delivery Group (RDG), representing train operating companies, in an effort to break the deadlock after months of disruption to the network from 
A spokesperson for the RDG said: “We have had detailed discussions and we are working jointly towards a revised offer. Both parties have agreed to continue discussions over the next few days.”
Speaking after the meeting at the offices of FirstGroup, in London, the 
 general secretary, Mick Lynch, said rail employers had not made a new pay deal but the union had agreed to work with them to come up with one.
He said: “We have been in detailed discussions with the Rail Delivery Group for the train operating companies. We are working jointly towards a revised offer for their section of the dispute.
“We’ve agreed that over the next couple of days we’ll continue to work on that through discussions, and we’ll see what comes of it. And that’s all we can say at this time I’m afraid.”
Asked if the proposal was different from the previous offer on the table, he said: “We haven’t got an offer so we’ll leave it for another day.”
Luke Chester, the organising director at the TSSA union, said there had been “interesting and detailed discussions” at the meeting, adding: “We’re working towards hopefully something which will resolve the dispute. We’re not there yet but we’ll be having more discussions over the next few days and see where we get to.”
Asked about the atmosphere in the meeting, Chester said: “Well we weren’t climbing over tables punching each other, that’s not the way it works at all. Discussions are always cordial, sometimes heated but they’re always cordial. We’re professionals in that way.” On hopes for making a deal, he said: “We’ll have to see how the talks progress. I can’t predict the future.”
Prior to the meeting Lynch had said they expected to get a “very tight proposal” with a “way below inflation” pay offer, and warned he expected it to be ungenerous with onerous conditions attached.
Downing Street had said it hoped to see progress in the talks and was expecting a renewed pay offer from rail employers. A spokesperson for No 10 said: “It is the Rail Delivery Group rather than government who put forward these offers – they are the employers. It is my understanding that they are tabling a renewed offer, so we would hope to see progress in the coming days. It is for unions and employers to work through the detail of negotiations.”
Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
The crunch talks come just a day after Tim Shoveller, the lead negotiator for Network Rail, told MPs that the chances of a settlement in its own separate dispute with the RMT 
He told members of the transport select committee that they needed to persuade 2,000 more of the union’s members to accept a deal, and that this could be done through “very carefully targeted discussions”.
last month rejected a deal worth 9% over two years
, although the smaller numbers of staff in the TSSA and Unite unions accepted the Network Rail offer.
The train drivers’ union, Aslef, told the committee on Wednesday that there was zero chance of an agreement in its dispute.
Lynch said that any proposal received this Thursday would need to be put to the membership. “When [a proposal is] in a position to vote on, there will be a vote of our members,” he said. “The only way this dispute is going to be resolved is if our members accept the proposals from Network Rail and the train operators in a referendum. It’s the only way we’ll resolve it.”
Rail strikes: trains halted as passengers face weekend of disruption
RMT joins train drivers’ union in announcing further rail strikes
Train operators and union leaders criticise draft UK strike laws
RMT suspends rail strikes due to be held on 30 March and 1 April
Rail strikes: RMT votes to accept Network Rail pay offer
Rail strikes cause fresh disruption in Great Britain this weekend
Rail passengers face more disruption as strikes continue
RMT members to stage first of four planned 24-hour strikes across UK
RMT members to vote on new Network Rail pay offer
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
