Deal to end RMT rail strikes could be close, industry bosses tell MPs | Rail strikes | The Guardian
Industry leaders warn customers’ confidence is ‘ebbing away’ as they switch to rival modes of transport
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Tim Shoveller, the chief negotiator for Network Rail, Mick Lynch, back centre, the RMT general secretary, and Steve Montgomery, the chair of the Rail Delivery Group, appearing before the transport select committee on Wednesday.
Tim Shoveller, the chief negotiator for Network Rail, Mick Lynch, back centre, the RMT general secretary, and Steve Montgomery, the chair of the Rail Delivery Group, appearing before the transport select committee on Wednesday.
 This article is more than 
Deal to end RMT rail strikes could be close, industry bosses tell MPs
This article is more than 4 months old
Industry leaders warn customers’ confidence is ‘ebbing away’ as they switch to rival modes of transport
UK politics live – latest news updates
Wed 11 Jan 2023 14.12 GMT
Last modified on Wed 11 Jan 2023 17.48 GMT
A deal could be close to end the long-running RMT 
, industry bosses have told MPs, adding that customers’ confidence is “ebbing away” as they start to switch to rival modes of transport.
Network Rail said the chances of a settlement with the union were “seven out of 10”, with just 2,000 more staff members to persuade to accept. However, the train drivers’ union, Aslef, said there was “zero” chance of an agreement in its separate dispute.
In its own evidence to the Wednesday’s committee hearing, rail union leaders said the government had “sabotaged” negotiations and their members would not accept deals that enforced changes to terms and conditions along with real-terms pay cuts.
The prospect of progress in resolving the dispute with Network Rail – where strikes have been most prolonged, and where the 
 action has had most impact through its signalling staff – appears to be higher than with train companies and drivers.
A deal worth 9% over two years, with guarantees on jobs and other benefits, 
was rejected in an RMT referendum before Christmas
, although the smaller numbers of staff in the TSSA and Unite unions accepted.
Tim Shoveller, the lead negotiator for Network Rail, told MPs that 36% of RMT members had voted yes – and that some key issues and questions had not been fully explained before the first vote. He said: “It’s a couple of thousand people that need to change their vote … I think there’s every chance by some very carefully targeted discussions at achieving that.”
Shoveller said he had met RMT leaders on Tuesday for discussions and they were planning to meet again next week. Questioned where he would rate the chances of a deal on a scale of one to 10, he said seven.
However, answering the same question earlier, the Aslef leader, Mick Whelan, replied “zero”, adding: “We’re further away than where we started.” Whelan said his union’s executive would examine a proposed offer next Monday, but he expected them to reject the 
 that “crossed our red lines and smashed our enabling agreement”.
Rail union leaders tell MPs resolution over strikes further away than ever – video
He said that the offer was a 20% real-terms pay cut, given inflation and the years without a rise, and worse conditions: “How could any trade union sell this to anyone they represent?”
Whelan said unions were “in it for the long-haul”, adding: “Our members will do this for as long as it takes, to protect their futures.”
Steve Montgomery, the chair of the Rail Delivery Group and the lead negotiator for train operators, said the dispute was “hurting the industry”. He said: “We are seeing customer confidence ebbing away every day – we are seeing it when strikes happen, the disruption with action short of strikes when people don’t become available to cover – these things are all impacting and customers are starting to use other modes of transport.”
Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
The RMT general secretary, Mick Lynch, accused the government of “deliberately torpedoing” talks by inserting clauses in a deal from train operators in December that included driver-only operation. He told MPs: “It’s sabotage. They wanted the strikes to go ahead … they didn’t lift a finger or a telephone over Christmas to stop them.”
He said there was “almost a Stalinist obsession in the Department for Transport” (DfT) with controlling the rail industry, and that “British Rail would never have tolerated that level of interference”.
Questioned by the Conservative MP Greg Smith on whether strikes were driving people off the railway, Lynch said the government should shoulder the blame.
Lynch said: “Loads of damage is being done – but the damage is being conceived and controlled in the DfT. The damage has been envisaged in Whitehall; by people who know very little about the railway. It is being caused by the reckless policy of the current administration – not by the workforce.
“What about the days when we’re not on strike, when it’s absolutely useless as well?” he added.
Rail strikes: trains halted as passengers face weekend of disruption
RMT joins train drivers’ union in announcing further rail strikes
Train operators and union leaders criticise draft UK strike laws
RMT suspends rail strikes due to be held on 30 March and 1 April
Rail strikes: RMT votes to accept Network Rail pay offer
Rail strikes cause fresh disruption in Great Britain this weekend
Rail passengers face more disruption as strikes continue
RMT members to stage first of four planned 24-hour strikes across UK
RMT members to vote on new Network Rail pay offer
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
