Ambulance response times worst on record as A&E waits hit new highs | NHS | The Guardian
Data for England shows huge pressures across NHS from emergency callouts to admissions
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Ambulances waiting outside St Thomas' hospital in London.
Ambulances waiting outside St Thomas' hospital in London.
 This article is more than 
Ambulance response times worst on record as A&amp;E waits hit new highs
This article is more than 4 months old
Data for England shows huge pressures across NHS from emergency callouts to admissions
UK politics live – latest news updates
Thu 12 Jan 2023 13.33 GMT
First published on Thu 12 Jan 2023 10.12 GMT
 were the worst on record across all major categories in December, while people waiting 12 hours or more to be admitted to A&amp;E reached an all-time high.
The average response time for people requiring an ambulance for a stroke, severe burns or chest pain was 93 minutes, five times the operation target of 18 minutes.
The higher-priority “life threatening” category was also badly affected in December, with ambulance crews taking almost 11 minutes on average to reach patients – including those suspected of having a heart attack. At 10 minutes and 57 seconds, this was the slowest response time on record for this category and was almost four minutes longer the operational target, according to monthly data released by 
Graphic showing mean average response times each month
The pressures facing the NHS were also apparent in other areas of the service. Less than half of patients attending major A&amp;E departments were seen within four hours in December, a record low and the first time the figure has dropped below 50%.
The number of people waiting longer than 12 hours to be admitted jumped 44.1% to 54,532, up from 37,837 in November. The December figure was the highest in the past 12 years.
There was some relief when it came to waiting lists. While a total of 7.2 million people were still awaiting treatment in November, it was 30,000 fewer than in October, the first reduction in the backlog in more than two years.
But more than 400,000 people are waiting a year or more for treatment, while 3 million have already waited more than four months to be seen.
The NHS has been under major pressure in recent months. This is partly due to lengthy waiting lists as a result of the Covid pandemic, a bad flu season and a lack of social care putting downward pressure on the number of available beds.
There were also a number of strikes by NHS staff in December, including nurses and ambulance workers who are in dispute over pay rises, which are well below the rate of inflation; as well as staff shortages and work conditions some say threaten the fabric of the NHS.
Separate data also released on Thursday showed 95% of hospital beds in England were occupied in the week to 8 January, with more than one in seven taken up by patients ready to be discharged, a figure that exceeded an average of 14,000 patients for the first time on record.
Although the number of beds required for flu cases fell slightly, 5,262 patients weretreated for influenza that week, compared with just 48 in the same period last year.
The number of norovirus cases rose to 513 last week, while a further 9,000 beds were required for Covid patients.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
The number of ambulances waiting outside A&amp;Es for an hour or more fell from a record high of one in four to one in five last week. However, this remains an extremely high proportion compared with previous winters.
More than 3,600 critical care beds were in use in the same week, a much higher figure than in a typical winter, albeit lower than during the pandemic in 2020-21.
In response, the NHS wrote to trusts across England on Thursday asking them to book in all remaining patients waiting more than 18 months for their appointment or treatment by the end of March.
The national medical director for NHS England, Prof Sir Stephen Powis, acknowledged the “extreme pressure” facing staff but pointed out that the service had made some progress on waiting list backlogs and cancer screenings.
“The NHS will keep its foot on the accelerator to continue to make progress on the Covid backlog and hospitals have today been asked to ensure anyone waiting longer than 18 months has their treatment booked in before March,” he said.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
