Blind date: ‘I will for ever be the woman who denied him a crab bisque’ | Relationships | The Guardian
Katharine, 34, an accountant, meets Stephen, 41, a nurse
The Guardian - Back to home
Blind date: ‘I will for ever be the woman who denied him a crab bisque’
Katharine, 34, an accountant, meets Stephen, 41, a nurse
Sat 14 Jan 2023 06.00 GMT
Last modified on Fri 10 Mar 2023 17.31 GMT
To meet someone new without preconceptions, and a fun evening.
I was just relieved he was there. He’d brought me flowers, which was lovely, and was reading a book – a nice change from looking at your phone.
Christmas. Family. The World Cup. Films. Music. Hobbies. Politics.
When I got a bit bossy on the ordering. I’ll for ever be the woman who denied him a crab bisque – sorry, Stephen!
That he seemed really comfortable in himself.
Would you introduce Stephen to your friends?
We talked about how much we enjoy sport – him, football; me, netball. He’d get on well with my netball team.
What do you think he made of you?
That I’m a complete chatterbox and didn’t give him a chance to get a word in edgeways. Other than that, hopefully that I was good company.
No, we went our separate ways.
If you could change one thing about the evening what would it be?
How my head felt the next day, after the second bottle of wine.
I’d meet for a drink as friends.
The only way to get a look behind the scenes of the Saturday magazine. Sign up to get the inside story from our top writers as well as all the must-read articles and columns, delivered to your inbox every weekend.
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Katharine and Stephen on their date
read all about how we put it together here
What questions will I be asked?
Can I choose who I match with?
No, but don't worry: we'll choose the nicest ones.
Your first name, job and age.
Will I see the other person’s answers?
No. We may edit yours and theirs for a range of reasons, including length, and we may ask you for more details.
Will you find me The One?
Can I do it in my home town?
Only if it’s in the UK. Many of our applicants live in London, but we would love to hear from people living elsewhere.
A nice meal and pleasant conversation.
Confident, chatty, very friendly – I knew immediately it would be fun.
Top five films. Music and playlists. The novelty of a blind date. Family, kids and plans. Christmas presents.
I don’t think there was one but, if I had to choose, going to the loo three times because I drank so much water.
Impeccable. She chatted with our fellow diners, which was nice.
She’s quite assertive, which was refreshing. I was clueless about a lot of the food, and the wine selection. I was pleased she took the lead there.
Would you introduce Katharine to your friends?
What do you think she made of you?
“Has this guy got a UTI?” Joking. I hope she thought that I was equally friendly and chatty.
If you could change one thing about the evening what would it be?
Chicken over rabbit leg – the leg was amazing, but it’s just so much effort.
11 – the extra mark is because Katharine went above and beyond.
I’d like to ... four hours just flew by.
Katharine and Stephen ate at 
. Fancy a blind date? Email 
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
