Alice Mahon obituary | Labour | The Guardian
Uncompromising Labour MP who spoke with the authentic voice of the people she was elected to represent
The Guardian - Back to home
Alice Mahon, left, speaks at a Stop the War Coalition news conference with Lindsey German from the group. Mahon was not a pacifist, but against the ill-considered, unjust use of military power.
Alice Mahon, left, speaks at a Stop the War Coalition news conference with Lindsey German from the group. Mahon was not a pacifist, but against the ill-considered, unjust use of military power.
Uncompromising Labour MP who spoke with the authentic voice of the people she was elected to represent
Wed 11 Jan 2023 20.43 GMT
Last modified on Mon 23 Jan 2023 18.54 GMT
The former MP for Halifax, Alice Mahon, who has died aged 85, was one of the last of a generation of 
 MPs who were proud of being socialists and who spoke with the authentic voice of the people they were elected to represent. Mahon was raised to believe in the power of democratic politics and throughout her life she never faltered in her personal commitment “to make a difference”.
It made for a difficult life at Westminster, where her refusal to compromise in the passionate pursuit of her beliefs, throughout four parliaments from 1987 to 2005, marked her out as a defiant member of the awkward squad on the Labour left. It meant that she was often in the position of opposing her own frontbench, and while she thus infuriated the party whips – and the editor of her local paper, the Halifax Evening Courier – she nevertheless engendered respect within the party for her consistency. She was not helped by being a somewhat aggressive speaker with a rather grim, humourless style, but she was already in her middle years – aged 49 – when first elected, and the crowded agenda she had brought to Westminster meant she was in far too much of a hurry to bother about such niceties.
She had no ambition for personal promotion, but sought to improve health and working conditions and the lives of women in particular. When Labour took office in 1997, she was appointed to the lowest rung of government preferment, as parliamentary private secretary to Chris Smith, the culture secretary, but predictably had to resign within five months. She did so after voting against what she described in a powerful speech to MPs as “punitive and cruel” cuts in benefits to single parents, a circumstance of which she had personal experience.
She was frequently erroneously cast as a pacifist because of her opposition to military action, notably in the first Gulf war, Kosovo, the former Yugoslavia and Iraq. She also supported the withdrawal of troops from Northern Ireland, and repeatedly voted against defence estimates in the House of Commons, yet she was motivated not by pacifism, but rather by what she saw as the ill-considered, unjust use of military power.
Mahon never hesitated to court controversy. She backed a Commons motion endorsing the rehabilitation of Leon Trotsky by the then collapsing Soviet Union in 1988, co-sponsored a bill with 
 that year to try to dis-establish the Church of England, and opposed the expulsion from the Labour party in 1991 of the Militant-supporting MP Dave Nellist. In 2006, after she had left parliament, she testified in support of 
, the former Serbian leader, at his war crimes trial.
Born at Buttershaw, Bradford, Alice was the younger of two daughters of Thomas Bottomley, a bus driver, and his wife, Edna, who had been raised in extreme poverty as one of 11 children. Edna had suffered from rheumatic fever in a family with no money for doctor’s bills, and both parents were Labour members who regarded Aneurin Bevan as an idol. “He knew what he was in parliament for, did Bevan,” Mahon would say later. The girls were raised in a close-knit family environment in Halifax with an interest in socialist politics, an understanding of their father’s worn copy of Robert Tressell’s The Ragged-Trousered Philanthropists and a love of opera and dancing. Their mother worked in a textile mill in the mornings and in a pub at weekends. She also took in sewing.
Mahon attended a local church school, although was not christened as her father was a humanist, and then Halifax grammar school, which she left at 16 for a variety of jobs in mills, a factory, an office and a hotel. She was a member of the Young Socialists, and, aged 20, joined the Labour party and married for the first time. She trained as a nurse before the first of her two sons was born and returned to work as an auxiliary nurse for 10 years at Northowram hospital. She lived in Northowram for more than 50 years until her death.
Her involvement with the National Union of Public Employees led to work as a trade union official, and in the mid-1970s she signed up as a mature student to study for a BA in social policy and administration at Bradford University. From 1979 until her election to parliament she taught trade union studies at Bradford and Ilkley Community College.
During this time, Mahon had become an active local politician, attending Labour party annual conferences, where she was a frequent speaker. She was elected to Calderdale council (1982–87) and served on the Calderdale district health authority. When selection for the Labour candidacy for the marginal seat of Halifax came up, she was encouraged to stand by the veteran Labour MP 
. She won the selection on the first ballot from a list of six prospective candidates, the other five of whom were men, and in the general election won the seat from the sitting Conservative MP.
At Westminster she was a member of the select committee on health from 1991 to 1997, and from 1992 to 2005 a member of the Nato parliamentary assembly (formerly the North Atlantic assembly), chairing its sub-committee for security and co-operation in south-eastern Europe from 1997. Although an active member of the leftwing Campaign group at Westminster, Mahon was even-handed about other MPs, including many Conservatives. In 1994 she worked with female Tory MPs to set up the all-party parliamentary group on breast cancer.
When she resigned from Labour in 2009, one reason she gave was the smear campaign against leading Conservatives mounted by Gordon Brown’s disgraced adviser Damian McBride. She was outraged on behalf of David Cameron, one of those affected, not least because he and his wife had recently lost their son, Ivan. She said she had “had it with New Labour”, but rejoined when Jeremy Corbyn became leader in 2015.
In later life, in an interview for the British Library’s Oral History of Parliament, she denied that she was a “class warrior”, as often depicted. On the contrary, she reported her delight at learning of the possibility of breaking down class barriers through the friendships she had made at Westminster, citing the pleasure of staying at the House of the Binns, the ancestral home of the Eton-educated late Labour MP 
, now run by the National Trust of Scotland.
Mahon was married first to John Gledhill, from whom she was divorced in 1972. She subsequently married Tony Mahon, who worked as a trade union official before becoming her parliamentary assistant. He died in January 2022. She is survived by the two sons of her first marriage, a stepdaughter from the second, and by her sister.
 Alice Mahon, politician, born 28 September 1937; died 25 December 2022
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
