House passes rules package – as it happened | US politics | The Guardian
This blog is now closed. You can read our main story on the rules package 
The Guardian - Back to home
 This article is more than 
House passes rules package – as it happened
This article is more than 4 months old
This blog is now closed. You can read our main story on the rules package 
Tue 10 Jan 2023 01.45 GMT
First published on Mon 9 Jan 2023 13.54 GMT
House narrowly passes rules package in test of McCarthy's leadership
Furious fights over spending ahead in GOP-controlled House
US, Canada, Mexico condemn Brazil presidential palace attack
Georgia grand jury concludes investigation into Trump election meddling
McCarthy's first day on House speaker job poised to be rocky one
Kevin McCarthy holds the gavel after being elected House speaker, on 7 January. 
Kevin McCarthy holds the gavel after being elected House speaker, on 7 January. 
Tue 10 Jan 2023 01.45 GMT
First published on Mon 9 Jan 2023 13.54 GMT
Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature
House narrowly passes rules package in test of McCarthy's leadership
 has narrowly passed a crucial rules package that will govern how business is conducted in the lower chamber.
The House voted 220-213 to pass the package, which includes a measure that would allow a single member to force a “motion to vacate” the speakership, further weakening the position of newly-elected speaker 
. The California Republican struggled to ascend to the role amid party infighting last week that saw 15 rounds of floor votes.
The controversial rules plan drew skepticism from moderate Republicans over concessions made so that 
 could win the backing of the party’s ultraconservatives. Republican Tony Gonzales joined Democrats to vote against the package.
Today’s vote was viewed as a barometer of how dysfunctional the narrow Republican majority will be over the coming two years.
House narrowly passes rules package in test of McCarthy's leadership
Furious fights over spending ahead in GOP-controlled House
US, Canada, Mexico condemn Brazil presidential palace attack
Georgia grand jury concludes investigation into Trump election meddling
McCarthy's first day on House speaker job poised to be rocky one
Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature
We’re closing this blog now, thanks for following along.
Here is our main story on the rules package:
House adopts new rules Democrats decry as a ‘ransom note to America’
Here’s a quick recap of today’s key news:
Kevin McCarthy passed his first test as speaker late Monday as the Republicans narrowly approved their rules package for governing House operations,
 typically a routine step on Day One that stretched into the second week of the new majority. It was approved 220-213, a party-line vote with one Republican opposed.
The rules pre-emptively kill any investigations against its members,
 curtailing the power of an independent ethics office just as it is weighing whether to open inquiries into lawmakers who defied subpoenas issued by the House January 6 select committee last year.
The legislation includes key concessions that hardliners sought and McCarthy agreed to in his quest for the speaker’s gavel.
 The changes include allowing a single lawmaker to call for his removal at any time. Other changes would place new restrictions on federal spending, potentially limiting McCarthy’s ability to negotiate government funding packages with president Joe Biden, whose fellow Democrats control the Senate.
president Joe Biden, Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and Mexic
an president Andrés Manuel López Obrador issued a joint statement condemning yesterday’s attack on Brazil’s congress
 and presidential palace by supporters of Jair Bolsonaro.
The special grand jury in Georgia has concluded its examination of Donald Trump’s alleged election meddling in the state,
 where he made efforts to overturn Biden’s 2020 election win. There are further stages to go through before prosecutor Fani Willis decides whether to indict Trump on criminal charges.
CNN’s Manu Raju has spoken to far-right Republican congresswoman Lauren Boebert. A few days ago, Boebert rejected Trump’s call to back McCarthy, saying that Trump should instead tell McCarthy: “It’s time to withdraw.”
Today, Boebert told Raju, she voted “present” to help McCarthy, “because we got some amazing concessions in these rules that benefit the American people.”
She added that while she didn’t anticipate having to use the re-instated one-member threshold vacate rule – if McCarthy fails to follow the concessions – “that’s what it’s there for”.
Asked Lauren Boebert why she voted &#39;present&#39; to help McCarthy: &quot;Because we got some amazing concessions in these rules that benefit the American people.&quot;
Asked if she&#39;d seek to oust him if he didn&#39;t follow concessions: &quot;That&#39;s what vacate is for, but I don&#39;t anticipate using it.&quot;
The Guardian’s Washington bureau reporter, Hugo Lowell, has this 
 of what the rules package achieves – self-preservation:
House Republicans moved to pre-emptively kill any investigations against its members as it curtailed the power of an independent ethics office, just as it was weighing whether to open inquiries into lawmakers who defied subpoenas issued by the House January 6 select committee last year.
Seeking to protect itself, the rules package first undercut the ability of the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE) to function, with changes that struck at its principal vulnerabilities to defang its investigative powers for at least the next two years, according to sources familiar with its operation.
The changes to the OCE are twofold: reintroducing term limits for members of the bipartisan board, which would force out three of four Democratic-appointed members, and restricting its ability to hire professional staff in the first 30 days of the new congressional session.
 and I’ll be taking you through the latest US politics news for the next while. You can find me on Twitter 
Just after the House narrowly passed a rules package that weakens the position of House speaker 
, the Republican is arguing that the office of the speaker has too much power.
Congress has been broken for a long time. Over the years, a concentration of power within the Speaker’s Office has kept lawmakers on the legislative sidelines. Lawmaking should be open to all members—not just a select few—so that the best ideas win.
McCarthy made numerous concessions to the ultraconservative wing of the Republican party in order to secure the speakership, including a measure to allow a single member to call for a vote to oust the speaker.
House narrowly passes rules package in test of McCarthy's leadership
 has narrowly passed a crucial rules package that will govern how business is conducted in the lower chamber.
The House voted 220-213 to pass the package, which includes a measure that would allow a single member to force a “motion to vacate” the speakership, further weakening the position of newly-elected speaker 
. The California Republican struggled to ascend to the role amid party infighting last week that saw 15 rounds of floor votes.
The controversial rules plan drew skepticism from moderate Republicans over concessions made so that 
 could win the backing of the party’s ultraconservatives. Republican Tony Gonzales joined Democrats to vote against the package.
Today’s vote was viewed as a barometer of how dysfunctional the narrow Republican majority will be over the coming two years.
The Biden administration has said the president will veto Republicans’ proposed economic plan, the Small Business Taxpayer Protection Act, if it passes.
The legislation would strip the Internal Revenue Service of $71bn (£58bn) in funding, almost all of the funding it received under last year’s Inflation Reduction Act to help modernize the agency and crack down on tax cheats. The Office of Management and Budget described the proposal as reckless and an evaluation showed it would increase the deficit and decrease agency revenue.
“The administration strongly opposes H.R. 23, to rescind certain balances made available to the Internal Revenue Service” CNN reported the office said in a statement. “The bill would rescind funding passed in the Inflation Reduction Act that enables the IRS to crack down on large corporations and high-income people who cheat on their taxes and evade the taxes that they owe under the law.”
The House has reconvened and will soon vote on the crucial rules package that will govern how business is conducted in the lower chamber.
The package will further cement many of the procedural giveaways speaker 
 made amid frantic negotiations with fellow Republicans in order to win the backing of the party’s ultraconservatives. The plan drew skepticism from some moderate Republicans, including Nancy Mace, but the South Carolina representative said Monday she would vote for it.
Congressman Jason Smith, a Republican from Missouri who objected to the certification of the results of the 2020 election, has won the chairmanship of the House ways and means committee.
In a statement about his win, Smith pledged as chair to support the Republican plan to slash funding to the IRS or Internal Revenue Service – billions were allocated to the agency last year to go after tax cheats.
“Our first step is defunding the $80bn pay increase 
 gave the IRS to hire 87,000 new agents to target working families. But we are not stopping there,” Smith said in a statement.
Doing so would reduce revenues by almost $186bn over 10 years and add more than $114bn to the deficit, according to an evaluation from the Congressional Budget Office.
Rep. Jason Smith&#39;s stmt on winning Ways and Means gavel: 
“It is deeply humbling and an honor to be selected by my colleagues to serve as the next Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.&quot; 
Nancy Mace, one of the moderate 
 who had voiced hesitation over the rules package, will vote for it, NBC News reports:
MACE will be a YES tonight on rules package but she wanted to make people aware of the flaws in the process 
a Sunday interview with CBS News
, Mace objected to the way the package had been negotiated:
I like the rules package. It is the most open, fair and fiscally conservative package we’ve had in 30 years. I support it, but what I don’t support is a small number of people trying to get a deal done or deals done for themselves in private, in secret, to get a vote or vote present. I don’t support that … And so I am on the fence right now about the rules package vote tomorrow for that reason.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
