There’s news, then there’s the Guardian | Information | The Guardian
The Guardian - Back to home
There’s news, then there’s the Guardian
As events moved at a dizzying speed in 2022, 
 stayed true to its values, delivering journalism that brought clarity, truth, wit, ideas and an occasional dose of hope. We proved that a fast-moving world needs quality reporting now more than ever. Here’s how we did it ...
Tue 20 Dec 2022 16.00 GMT
Last modified on Mon 9 Jan 2023 14.00 GMT
How the Guardian covered a year of news
A year of news, told uniquely by 
2022 has been unforgettable, yet again, for news. Following two long pandemic years – with many still experiencing the effects – we’ve witnessed the outbreak of war in Ukraine, a rapid turnover of UK prime ministers, the death of Britain’s longest-serving monarch, global economic turmoil and cost of living pressures, as well as the impacts of the climate crisis.
It has been an intense and challenging year in many ways, but it has also been a year that has reminded us of just how vital high-quality, fact-based, impactful journalism is. Guardian and Observer journalism has provided both clarity and imagination, trying to make the space for hope.
In Ukraine, we aim to do more than report on the grind of a horrifying conflict now into its 10th month. This is a war that has affected many citizens, so we have given a voice to those suffering in the conflict as well as reporting the situation on the ground and providing the expertise needed to understand the geopolitics.
As editor-in-chief, one of the most rewarding parts of my job involves publishing journalism that makes a positive difference and has a real impact, and this year we have seen many examples of this. There’s 
 exposing bullying that prompted a UK cabinet minister to resign, the investigation that generated 
 over Covid contracts, the exclusive that 
 to indigenous families in Australia, and the shocking new evidence that prompted the release of an 
 for attempting to register to vote.
digital recurring acts of support to the Guardian
The Guardian continues to lead the way with investigative reporting that holds the world’s most powerful people and companies to account. We published a revelatory investigation into leaked banking data from the bank Credit Suisse, discovering war criminals, drug traffickers, money launderers and kleptocratic political leaders among the bank’s clients. Our investigative series the Uber Files, based on a leak to the Guardian, exposed how the tech company flouted laws, concealed its behaviour from police, and lobbied governments during its aggressive global expansion. And our exclusives on the Conservative peer Michelle Mone and the company PPE Medpro, more than two years in the making, have turned into a national scandal. These investigations, coupled with powerful reporting from our political, business and opinion teams, have helped to bring clarity to an unprecedented year in British politics and to hold the powerful to account.
The Guardian has also been exposing the mistreatment and deaths of migrant workers in Qatar for almost a decade. This year, we have kept the issue prominent before and during the men’s football World Cup, also reporting on the corruption and homophobia that tarnished the event before it even began. While covering the stories beyond the football, we have also delivered expertly crafted sports journalism, in digital, video, audio and print for our global audience, during a World Cup like no other.
We continue to bear witness to the climate crisis as it destroys lives, uproots whole communities and changes the course of our shared future. At such a critical moment we have continued to lead the way reporting on the most significant long-term issue of our time, with a superb global environment reporting team. This year, we published an article about the climate crisis an average of every three hours, launched significant climate investigations, and led the publication of a joint editorial calling for radical action on climate finance, together with more than 30 other media organisations from 20 countries.
Our editions in Australia and the US have also published groundbreaking journalism, establishing the Guardian as a trusted voice in each region.
In Australia, our journalists have exposed the broken system facilitating the decline of the nation’s unique wildlife, the collapsed funeral fund devastating vulnerable Aboriginal families, the wrongful imprisonment of Indonesian children seeking asylum, and the broken culture within the Queensland police force, including sensational allegations of misogyny and racism. There has also been expert and authoritative reporting on high-profile stories such as the defamation trial of Australia’s most decorated soldier, Ben Roberts-Smith, in a brilliant five-part podcast series.
In the US, we’ve continued to report on the country’s deep political divisions, as well as the ongoing climate crisis and racial, economic and health inequalities. We exposed the abuse in women’s sports, leading to significant changes in women’s soccer. We’ve meticulously followed the fallout from the January 6 hearings and Donald Trump’s presidency. And, continuing the job we started in 2020 with our award-winning Lost on the Frontline series, our journalists in the US have led the way in documenting those living with long Covid, tracking the illness’s debilitating effects on people all over the world.
In such a busy news year, Guardian and Observer journalism has also continued to bring our readers some fun … and occasionally joy. This year, we celebrated the first anniversary of our new Saturday magazine, published thousands of insightful features and interviews, shared exclusive stories and authored extracts, and taken our most popular columns to global audiences.
We have also made fantastic strides in audio and video journalism. Alongside our regular hits including Today in Focus, Football Weekly, Comfort Eating, and Anywhere but Westminster (to name just a few) we have also launched four new podcasts, including the stunning narrative series about stalking, Can I Tell You a Secret; and collected two more awards for our Guardian documentaries The Black Cop and Get away from the Target, making us the first and only news organisation to have won both an Oscar and a Bafta.
When I reflect on an outstanding year for Guardian and Observer journalism, I’m reminded that so much of this success is thanks to our readers. So much of the journalism we produce is thanks to the stories they trust to share with us – from Ukraine to Hong Kong, Afghanistan to Iran. And, of course, it is thanks to the financial support from our readers that we are able to continue to produce journalism that sheds a light on injustice and makes a real difference in people’s lives. More than 1m regular acts of financial support come from our readers around the world, on top of our committed print subscribers in the UK and nearly half a million more single contributions.
Your support powers us to continue pursuing the truth, wherever it leads, and to keep doing journalism that matters.
A sincere thank you for your support.
A rewarding year for the Guardian, but with challenges ahead
Introduction from Anna Bateson, chief executive officer
Since taking on my role as chief executive of Guardian Media Group in September 2022, I’ve been inspired by the Guardian’s incredible journalism, the strength of our brand, and the deep emphasis our colleagues place on building relationships with readers, advertisers and other partners. Making relationships, not transactions, is central to what we do and is an important part of our “duty to the reader and the community”, as our longest-serving editor, CP Scott, wrote in 1921.
monthly page views to our digital platforms
It has been a successful year for the Guardian. Alongside the brilliant journalistic work described in this report, our commercial teams have played a major part in that success – ensuring our website, apps and platforms are instinctive and a pleasure to use; making it simple for readers to support our work financially, giving our newsrooms the digital infrastructure needed to do their work, and bringing in much-needed revenue from advertisers and others who believe in the Guardian’s brand and worldwide relevance.
Like so many of our readers, our teams have worked incredibly hard throughout two very difficult years. And yet, although we are through the worst of the pandemic, we find ourselves facing new pressures – inflation is pushing up our costs at just the time when advertising and other sources of revenue slow down. While the Guardian is in a much sounder financial position than in previous recessions, in large part thanks to the support of readers around the world, the global economic outlook is increasingly tough and will force us to make tough choices about where and how we invest in 2023.
listens to our daily news podcast, 
Despite the tough financial climate all businesses will face next year, the Guardian is blessed with incredible strengths. A long-term owner in the Scott Trust, which reinvests any profits back into the news business and prizes our independence above all; our global authority and reach; and, as a consequence the high degree of trust placed in our brand, the million-plus readers whose financial support is now our biggest single source of income – bigger than sales of print newspapers, or of advertising. In combination, these are valuable assets.
Our ownership and support model allows us to keep Guardian and Observer journalism available to all on the web, whether they can afford to pay or not. Those readers who do give financial support tell us our choice to stay open is a major reason for doing so. We also have an incredibly loyal reader base in print, for Guardian Weekly, and Guardian Live events to bring readers closer to our journalism in new and engaging ways.
The Guardian is now a truly global news publisher, and our international teams in the US and Australia continue to thrive, connecting more deeply with readers in those countries as well as helping to serve our global audience. In 2023, we hope to do even more to serve other Guardian audiences, including the substantial and growing Guardian readership in Europe.
Commercial relationships and advertising partners have helped support the range and depth of journalism we produce. Our first 
 was supported by Visa during the women’s Euros tournament. The award-winning 
 returned for a fourth series with sponsorship from Ocado. We also partnered with Sky Studios and Wonderhood to turn impactful Guardian journalism into a three-part original documentary series, which aired on Sky. Google continues to be a valuable advertising partner across multiple formats, including display, podcasts and video, too. It’s also pleasing to see how many of our commercial partners choose to advertise with us because of our purpose and values-driven content, something we are noticing as a key factor in how advertisers choose to spend. Of course, it would be impossible to thank every commercial partner, but we are deeply grateful to all those who help fund our important work.
news organisation to have won both an Oscar and a Bafta for Guardian documentaries
Just as important as journalistic impact and commercial success is how we do our work. Working harder to make the Guardian a diverse and inclusive place to work is a high priority for me and our entire leadership team. In 2023, we have goals to improve female and non-white representation at all levels in the company, and to reduce our gender and ethnicity pay gaps, through a strong focus on recruitment, promotion, training and development for staff. We also set ourselves stretching emissions reduction goals, and are proud to be the first major global news publisher to have rejected advertising from the fossil fuel industry, permanently. In the year ahead, we will also carry out a biodiversity audit of our operations, so we think about environmental impact in its broadest sense, as well as carbon reduction.
2023 will be a challenging year for our business, just as it will be for so many readers and other organisations. Yet working for an organisation with such clear values and a strong sense of purpose, I can’t help but feel positive, and also immensely grateful to every Guardian and Observer colleague for their contributions to this amazing news organisation.
A sincere thank you to our readers and supporters – wherever you are in the world, we wish you a wonderful end to 2022 and an optimistic 2023.
The reporting: 12 months on the ground
After a hectic and at times harrowing 12 months, we find ourselves reflecting on a year in the news – and how the Guardian covered it all.
The main event: Russia’s invasion of Ukraine
There can be no doubt about the dominant story of the year. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine upended tens of millions of lives and rippled outward to threaten security, energy supplies and nutrition for billions more.
The invisible Ukrainian who walked 225km to safety from Mariupol
Our correspondents were on the ground long before the invasion on 24 February, on both sides of the border, and we have maintained round-the-clock coverage ever since, and broken many exclusives – from the 
 during the siege of Kharkiv, interrogated the diplomatic response and 
 – and strove continually to project the human side of the war, most memorably in the tale of the 
man who walked more than 200km
 with his dog to safety.
Video, audio, photography, breaking news, long-form writing, reportage, graphics and live events: Europe’s biggest war between two states since 1945 has challenged the Guardian’s international desk and team of correspondents in extreme ways.
It will continue to do so in 2023.
The war accelerated a global economic slump, sending costs soaring, throttling energy supplies and raising the spectre of blackouts, malnutrition and a winter of discontent across dozens of countries.
As interest rates spiked higher, we launched the 
, a first-person series giving a voice to those deeply affected by the cost of living crisis. As global food supplies fluctuated, we reported on the 
hunger gripping the Horn of Africa
And as the global energy system was upended, we investigated the long-term effects, the scramble for supplies, and the implications for the wider struggle against global heating and the climate crisis.
The climate emergency ran as a constant thread through much of our journalism in 2022. A bewildering array of extreme weather incidents coincided, with the 
, devastating floods in Pakistan, Sydney’s 
on record, ferocious heatwaves in the US south-west and the costliest Atlantic hurricane for years.
media organisations from over 20 countries published our joint Cop27 climate editorial
We broke exclusives about the 
origins of all this extreme weather
 – and in an investigation that had huge global impact, revealed the “carbon bombs” planned by 
. We produced an arresting 
 about the Pacific islanders threatened by rising ocean levels, and were 
 during one of its worst natural catastrophes.
At Cop27 in Egypt, we 
, and we closely followed the 
, now more likely to throw soup at a painting as they are to glue themselves to a public highway.
You can read more about the impact of our work in this area 
The revolution will not be televised
Perhaps the most unexpected global story was the uprising in Iran, which was sparked by the death in custody of a young woman, Mahsa Amini. The Iranian authorities tightly control reporting inside the country, so our teams had to redouble efforts to reach protagonists to tell their stories. Social media remains important for this, so it was satisfying to see our Instagram video on 
why Iranians are risking everything for change
 reached more than 2 million viewers.
In the US, we investigated the January 6 attack on the Capitol, contributing volumes to the public’s understanding of that pivotal day for US democracy. And with gun control and the repeal of Roe v Wade providing a divisive backdrop to the November midterm elections, millions of readers found our 
 invaluable alongside profiles of election deniers across the US, including those still operating by 
page views to our US midterm election coverage
But in 2022 there we other, more significant elections. In Brazil, our team described an anxious few weeks as Jair Bolsonaro finally suffered a chastening defeat by 
 from prison to presidential palace. We reported at first hand on lurches to the far right in Sweden, 
, and, in more upbeat news, our team in Australia was well-placed to cover 
As for British politics, prime ministers came and went with alarming regularity and the nation buried the pound, Queen Elizabeth and its global standing in quick succession. For 10 days in September, the future of the monarchy dominated the newsroom – and the 
future of those who work for it
 proved a controversial subject that generated a Guardian exclusive. We used the occasion to explore vigorously the state of republicanism and the Commonwealth.
Our Westminster team, under new political editor Pippa Crerar, broke scoop after scoop, exposing the blunders of Boris Johnson and Liz Truss. We irked home secretary Suella Braverman, who called us “tofu-eating wokerati”. And that was before we revealed how her department was 
stranding near-destitute immigrants in central London
For much of the world, a sort of post-pandemic normality has resumed – with one striking exception: the country where it all began. Chinese leaders faced a rapid spread of public anger caused by their 
, and our reporters looked at everything from the activists and people on the streets, to the state’s use of technology as a tool of control.
Technology is a huge story in its own right, and this year we explored both the rise of 
 and the fall of 
 – and its subsequent rout – was live-tweeted by the world’s richest man himself. At times, it was hard to know what was real and what wasn’t. Our journalists 
The Guardian and Observer pride themselves on a broad range of arts coverage – interviews, reviews, the next big thing and the last hurrah of legends.
We published some illuminating interviews, with the likes of 
. Post-pandemic, we welcomed the return of in-person cultural moments: we were there for 
 in the UK, and the second highest in the US.)
We launched a new podcast, 
, each week digging deep into the stories we can’t stop talking about. And we relaunched our flagship pop culture newsletter, 
, with a fresh new look. After just a few months, it already has more than 100,000 subscribers.
Sport had a year of World Cups to contend with – at one point there were four running concurrently, culminating in the curious, controversial contest in Qatar. We deliberately reported on matters 
 as well as on it, having focused 
relentlessly over the past decade 
on the thousands of mistreated, coerced, underpaid migrant workers in the country.
Our correspondents grappled with a bizarre lockdown winter Olympics in Beijing, while the Euro 2022 tournament provided a landmark moment for women’s football in a country that had 
. We responded to the moment by deepening 
, launching more regular reporting and a 
As importantly, we dug into the bigger issues behind sport: the sleaze of ‘Big Football’, racism in cricket, dementia risks in rugby, gambling, and 
. And we did so in multiple formats, with cartoons, podcasts and newsletters all complementing the mainstream newswriting and match reports.
Our opinion columns featured a more diverse range of voices than ever before, with more than a dozen black Britons writing for one special feature. Our groundbreaking Republic of Parenthood series has gained a wide audience and plaudits, while George Monbiot’s consistently arresting opinion pieces 
Our multimedia team had another stellar year. Our documentary 
Black Cop won a Bafta for best short film
 and our YouTube channel garnered almost 800m views in 2022. Our flagship podcast Today in Focus continued to amass a formidable international audience, riveting them with eclectic storytelling that ranged from 
 to the mystery of 
 washing ashore on English beaches.
We built up both our 
 and Instagram following, and it’s satisfying to note that on these platforms people still come to the Guardian for serious, meaningful stories about world events: our biggest Instagram video this year (20m views) was of a boy 
fleeing Ukraine when the war broke out
It was also a big year for our newsletter team, with the launch of our flagship daily newsletter in the UK, First Edition, which reaches more than 250,000 people every day. We now have more than 4m subscriptions to Guardian newsletters.
2022 will probably go down as a pretty challenging year, but Guardian journalism likes to offer hope, promise and reports of progress, too.
Scientific discoveries and developments wove an important thread of optimism through our journalism, with big leaps forward for 
 showed what is possible when people come together in search of love, understanding and solutions. We celebrated people and events that often go uncelebrated – such as the 
And we laughed and laughed along with writers such as Marina Hyde and John Crace, who managed to find comedy in the darkness, capturing the intensifying madness of British political life.
It was also a year when sadly we lost several wonderful Guardian journalists. Dom Phillips, a regular Guardian contributor in Brazil, was killed doing his job in the Amazon – and the outpouring of 
 from colleagues was a testament to his work over the years.
Long-serving Observer and Guardian photographer and picture editor
 Eamonn McCabe died suddenly in September, leaving a formidable legacy of visual storytelling. Prisons correspondent (and former prisoner) 
 died a few weeks later. And we also received tributes from around the world about 
 wrote in to say: “Whenever his articles appeared, whatever they were about … I would see his byline and a sunbeam would hit me. I would smile, shuffle into my chair a bit more and be absorbed by his depth of knowledge, his beautiful, fluid writing style and his unstinting generosity of spirit and kindness in everything he wrote about.”
That is the standard to which all Guardian journalists aspire.
With no billionaire owner or proprietor, we rely on readers to 
. Your support powers us to continue pursuing the truth, wherever it leads, and to keep producing journalism that matters. This year, more than a million readers around the world gave to us, and in doing so, helped us remain open and paywall-free so that our reporting can be accessed by everyone.
what you get when you support us
A sincere thank you, from all of us, for your support. We look forward to providing more of the journalism you value in 2023.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
