‘I’m in a safe place’: Ukrainian refugees’ mixed feelings about Christmas in UK | Ukraine | The Guardian
People taking refuge are grateful to their hosts but rue spending the festive season far from their families
The Guardian - Back to home
The Samusiev family. Father Andrii says his children wish they could spend Christmas with their friends in Ukraine. 
The Samusiev family. Father Andrii says his children wish they could spend Christmas with their friends in Ukraine. 
 This article is more than 
‘I’m in a safe place’: Ukrainian refugees’ mixed feelings about Christmas in UK
This article is more than 4 months old
People taking refuge are grateful to their hosts but rue spending the festive season far from their families
Fri 23 Dec 2022 15.18 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.37 GMT
Like many Ukrainian refugees, Yuliia Kashperenko will spend Christmas away from home this year.
She feels upset at the thought of being away from her family and friends in 
, but comforted to know she will spend the holiday with her host and their children in south London.
Kashperenko, 25, arrived the UK in October, leaving her parents behind in the Kyiv region. “With this family, I feel like I’m with my family,” she says. “I realise it’s better to stay here. I’m in a safe place with good people.”
advised refugees not to go home
 over Christmas, because of fears the country’s energy infrastructure would not be able to deal with the demand, meaning many will spend the holiday apart from loved ones.
Ukrainians traditionally celebrate Christmas on 7 January, according to the Julian calendar, but after Russia’s invasion, the country’s 
Orthodox church is allowing its congregations
 to observe the 25 December date instead in a move toward the west.
Kashperenko, who worked in the media and as a copywriter in Ukraine, arrived in London after applying to the Homes for Ukraine scheme. She fled because she was worried about attacks on the capital and being forced to survive the winter without power. “I understood that Russia was going to destroy cities and energy systems,” she says.
She describes her sponsor, who is in her early 60s, as a “really nice woman with a good humour”. “I’m lucky to live with her. We spend time together, cook together. We drink wine and talk about the situation in Ukraine, London, relationships, politics.”
They have spent the run-up to the festive season decorating the house and doing Christmas baking. Kashperenko says she tried her first mince pie the other day.
Her sponsor has also helped her set up her life in the UK, accompanying her to appointments at the local jobcentre and the council. She also arranged for her to have English lessons. “She helped me to believe in myself,” she says.
Kashperenko recently began working six days a week as a waitress in a central London restaurant. She enjoys the city’s bustling atmosphere and says she feels at home there, but emphasises she is not in the UK by choice.
“I want to live in Ukraine with my friends and parents and help my country,” she says. “Russia [has] destroyed everything. People are not thinking about how to spend their Christmas, they’re thinking about if they’ll have power.”
One of Yuliia Kashperenko’s photos of the Christmas decorations in London
Like Kashperenko, Iryna has begun to feel at home in the UK town she moved to with her two children in May. The 48-year-old was on her way to her work’s Christmas party in Frome, Somerset, when she took a moment to reflect on her life in the town. “There will always be a special place in my heart for this small town that gave us shelter and safety. Frome is a synonym [to] me for being safe, a second home,” she says.
Iryna moved from the Kyiv region with her 21-year-old daughter and 18-year-old son. She had never visited the UK before Russia’s invasion.
She is effusive about how welcoming their sponsors, a couple in their 60s, have been: “They are some of the best people I’ve ever met. I will be grateful all my life. They always say ‘you’re our family’, and we consider them to be ours as well.”
Iryna and Kashperenko emphasise how well-matched they have been with their sponsors, but others have not been as lucky. Community organisers have said relationship breakdowns between hosts and refugees have resulted in 
rising numbers of Ukrainians being made homeless
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Iryna emphasises her sponsors’ generosity and warmth, but says it is different from being at home: “We have a very good relationship but I sometimes feel we’re stealing personal space. We’re in someone’s home and at some point we have to go.
“My husband, my sister, my parents and in-laws are all in Ukraine. It’s really hard for them, and us sometimes, when we don’t have proper communication, when there’s no electricity.”
Her children also miss their lives in Ukraine. “They are very homesick. My son goes to college and has made friends but he misses his friends at home. He is constantly texting,” she says.
“We’re lucky to be here, but this move was a forced decision. We took two suitcases and I grabbed our documents and some photos of my family.” She says she wanted to go home over Christmas, but her family were worried about their safety.
Iryna, who was an HR manager before she fled, has been working for Frome’s Refugee Support Hub since October. She knows how tough it has been for many Ukrainians to find housing, in particular. Rents “are extremely expensive and it’s really difficult to find properties”, she says. “We don’t have credit history or guarantors in the UK.”
survey of Ukrainians in the UK by the Office for National Statistics
 found that 45% had experienced barriers to accessing private rented accommodation. The number of 
 in England has also risen as the six-month mark for many involved in the Homes for Ukraine scheme passed.
Andrii Samusiev, 43, came to the UK after the Scottish government acted as a “super sponsor” for his family, allowing them to leave Lokhvytsia, in central Ukraine, for Aberdeen in June. Samusiev, his wife, Olena, and their four children, aged 11-16, have been living at a hotel since then, accommodation Samusiev says they are very grateful for.
Samusiev was able leave Ukraine under a martial law exemption for men who financially support three or more children. He worked in land management in Ukraine and is now studying English at a local college, aong with Olena, 34, and their eldest child. He is concerned about securing the family’s future in the UK.
“I am worried about [being able] to find a decent job to be able to rent a house and educate our children,” he says. “We are trying to find at least a part-time or remote job while we study.”
Their children are adapting well though, Samusiev says. They attended a sports camp over the summer and they have been well-supported at school.
“Despite the fact that there is still a language barrier, thanks to the youth programmes they quickly found friends,” he says.
He says he and his wife volunteer with Aberdeen’s Ukrainian community and take part in local initiatives such as tree planting. “We actively try to integrate into society, to be useful here, and the Scots help us a lot in this. We are very touched by this.”
With Christmas around the corner, Samusiev and his wife have sent gifts back to their parents in Ukraine: warm clothes. “Electricity and heat are constantly cut off,” he says. “We are very worried about them and miss them.” They plan to have a Christmas video-call “provided there is electricity in Ukraine at that time”.
His children wish they could spend the holiday in Ukraine with their friends, he says. “If they believed in santa, they would ask for just that.”
Ukrainian sisters lodging in Northumberland turn out to be musical prodigies
‘We are refugees now, even our cat’: a Kherson mother’s UK diary
Most Britons think housing Ukrainian refugees is a good thing, study shows
Death of teenage Ukrainian refugee not suspicious, Devon police say
‘We live in the here and now’: Ukrainian refugees starting businesses in the UK
Ukrainian families vent frustration at struggle to find own homes in UK
Double Ukraine refugee host payments to aid cost of living, says minister
Ten UK sex offenders travelled to Poland after Ukraine invasion, says NCA
Scotland to pause Ukrainian refugee sponsorship scheme amid lack of homes
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
