Dramatic change, severe obstacles: Fiji enters 2023 with a new government, but many of the same problems | Jon Fraenkel | The Guardian
Former prime minister Frank Bainimarama looms over the incoming government of Sitiveni Rabuka, with fears of a return to the political instability of the past
The Guardian - Back to home
Workers and supporters of People’s Alliance Party celebrate after victory in Fiji’s elections. 
Workers and supporters of People’s Alliance Party celebrate after victory in Fiji’s elections. 
 This article is more than 
Dramatic change, severe obstacles: Fiji enters 2023 with a new government, but many of the same problems
This article is more than 4 months old
Former prime minister Frank Bainimarama looms over the incoming government of Sitiveni Rabuka, with fears of a return to the political instability of the past
Mon 2 Jan 2023 19.00 GMT
Last modified on Wed 1 Feb 2023 17.59 GMT
n New Year’s Day in Fiji, a former coup leader delivered a typically pugnacious attack on his country’s new government. Frank Bainimarama, the former military commander who became prime minister in the wake of a 2006 coup, and who has ruled Fiji with an iron fist for 16 years, 
lost an election on 14 December
On Christmas Eve, he ungraciously conceded defeat, but insisted that his successors remained bound by a constitution his government imposed in 2013. He then left the country to attend the wedding of his son, who is on bail 
facing charges in relation to domestic violence-related allegations
Fiji parliament confirms Sitiveni Rabuka as prime minister after days of uncertainty
Now returned, Bainimarama called on constitutional office-holders, including police commissioner Sitiveni Qiliho, to reject the new government’s call for their resignations. Ominously, he also reminded his successors that the 2013 constitution contains a provision that entitles the military to intervene to safeguard the ‘security, defence and wellbeing of 
The December election left no side with a clear majority. Bainimarama’s FijiFirst party gained 26 seats, as did the opposition led by 1987 coup leader, Sitiveni Rabuka. The balance of three seats in the 55-member parliament is held by Sodelpa, hitherto the largest opposition party until it ditched Rabuka as its leader in 2020.
Rabuka broke away to form a new party, the People’s Alliance (PAP), which gained 35.8% of the vote. PAP forged a close alliance with what was historically a largely Fiji Indian backed party, the National Federation Party (NFP), which acquired another 8.9%.
Sodelpa only narrowly surpassed the country’s 5% threshold. It wavered in its choice of coalition partner, 
Fiji’s new prime minister Sitiveni Rabuka (centre) joins hands with coalition partners, Biman Prasad (right), of the National Federation Party, and Anare Jalu, of the Social Democratic Liberal Party (SODELPA).
As coalition negotiations ensued, the police commissioner – himself also a former military officer – 
 on the pretext that reports of two stone-throwing incidents constituted a wider attack on the Fijian Indian minority community. This was straight out of the playbook of Fiji’s earlier coup-makers, but it was met by a vigorous nationwide denunciation. Rabuka was sworn in as the new prime minister on 24
December. The military presence remained light.
Bainimarama’s governments rode roughshod over civil liberties, censoring the media and transforming the judiciary into a pliant government-controlled institution, mostly staffed by Sri Lankan judges. FijiFirst’s support came mostly from the country’s Fiji Indian population – now down to about 33% – who mostly preferred stability and continuity and remain wary of the predominantly indigenous parties like PAP and Sodelpa.
FijiFirst also acquired some backing from indigenous Fijians, now called 
, who comprise about 66% of the population. Development projects, particularly new roads and bridges, were carefully targeted at FijiFirst-supporting districts, leaving opposition-backing areas starved of assistance. This worked for a while, at least until PAP and the NFP managed to manufacture a robust pan-ethnic response, which Sodelpa singularly failed to do.
Rabuka, now 74, has spent the last two decades atoning for his error in conducting the 1987 coup. His mission is a legacy project, and it has captured the enthusiasm of his country’s political elite. TikTok clips showing Rabuka dancing vigorously with Fiji Indian women were aimed at re-assuring the minority community and countering FijiFirst’s ethnically inflammatory attack adverts.
His message of redemption for the sins of the past also resonated with solidly Christian indigenous citizens, many of whom reject the ethno-nationalist politics of Fiji’s past. Still, this was no landslide victory for the opposition. There was a relatively low turnout of just over 67%. FijiFirst remains the largest single party, and Bainimarama promises to remain a vigorous thorn in the new government’s side.
The challenges ahead remain formidable. Fiji has never experienced an enduring change from government to opposition. The two previous such election-triggered changes resulted in coups in 1987 and 2000. Before the polls, the military commander, Jone Kalouniwai, promised to abide by the election outcome, but the military jealously guards its powers bequeathed under the 2013 constitution.
Opposition plans to abolish the severely compromised Fiji Independent Commission against Corruption, which has been far from ‘independent’, will be confounded by the fact that this is entrenched in the constitution. That 2013 constitution cannot be changed without the support of 75% of registered voters in a referendum, an impossibly high threshold.
In theory, it could be struck down by judicial review, but Fiji’s Sri Lankan judges are unlikely to oblige. Nor would the military look favourably on losing its constitutional immunities from prosecution for actions undertaken in 1987, 2000 or 2006.
Wise counsel is to avoid another coup, at all costs.
Jon Fraenkel is a Professor of Comparative Politics at Victoria University of Wellington.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
