Democrats plan defense as Republicans ramp up investigations into president and Hunter Biden – as it happened | US politics | The Guardian
House judiciary committee Republicans announce their own investigation into president’s classified documents 
Sign up to receive First Thing – our daily briefing by email
The Guardian - Back to home
 This article is more than 
Democrats plan defense as Republicans ramp up investigations into president and Hunter Biden – as it happened
This article is more than 4 months old
House judiciary committee Republicans announce their own investigation into president’s classified documents
Sign up to receive First Thing – our daily briefing by email
Fri 13 Jan 2023 21.00 GMT
First published on Fri 13 Jan 2023 13.48 GMT
House Republicans launch another investigation into Biden classified documents
Biden to give State of the Union address on 7 February
Biden to address voting rights, civil rights in sermon at MLK church
US to hit debt ceiling on 19 January, Treasury says, but default months away
Trump Organization fined $1.6m in tax fraud case
Trump Organization to be sentenced on tax fraud charges
Joe Biden at the White House on 13 January. 
Joe Biden at the White House on 13 January. 
Fri 13 Jan 2023 21.00 GMT
First published on Fri 13 Jan 2023 13.48 GMT
Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature
House Republicans launch another investigation into Biden classified documents
Republicans on the House judiciary committee have announced their own investigation of the classified documents found at 
’s home and former office, sending a letter to the attorney general, 
, demanding details of the inquiry.
“We are conducting oversight of the Justice Department’s actions with respect to former Vice President Biden’s mishandling of classified documents, including the apparently unauthorized possession of classified material at a Washington, D.C. private office and in the garage of his Wilmington, Delaware residence. On January 12, 2023, you appointed 
 as Special Counsel to investigate these matters. The circumstances of this appointment raise fundamental oversight questions that the Committee routinely examines. We expect your complete cooperation with our inquiry,” the committee’s chair 
The letter notes that the documents were first discovered just before the midterm elections in November, and accuses the justice department of departing “from how it acted in similar circumstances,” notable the inquiry into 
. The committee members demand Garland turn over an array of documents related to the Biden investigation by 27 January.
The investigation is the second to be announced by the House GOP since reports of the documents’ discovery first emerged this week. The other is being pursued by 
 of the oversight committee, who is playing a major role in the Republicans’ campaign of investigations against the White House.
House Republicans launch another investigation into Biden classified documents
Biden to give State of the Union address on 7 February
Biden to address voting rights, civil rights in sermon at MLK church
US to hit debt ceiling on 19 January, Treasury says, but default months away
Trump Organization fined $1.6m in tax fraud case
Trump Organization to be sentenced on tax fraud charges
Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature
was fined $1.6m by a judge
 after being convicted of tax fraud charges, but the Manhattan district attorney 
 that’s not the end of his investigation into the former president’s businesses. Meanwhile in Washington, House Republicans 
 about the classified documents found at 
’s home and former office, while the top Senate Democrat said special counsel 
should be allowed to look into
 doesn’t trust his Secret Service detail, 
according to a new book about his presidency
 the US government will soon hit its debt limit, and could run out of money by June.
 to two people hired by Trump’s attorneys to look for any secret materials in his possession.
the annual State of the Union address
 Two Daily Beast reporters try to get to the bottom of the fabulist congressman’s saga 
 with the Guardian’s Politics Weekly America podcast.
Last week, the much-talked-about George Santos of New York was sworn into the House. The Democrats and even some 
 think he should have resigned after he admitted to lying about a lot of things during his campaign.
So who is the real George Santos? How likely is it that he’ll see out his full term in office? And does his success tell us more about the state of US politics than it does an individual’s misgivings? 
 of the Daily Beast discuss the man behind the lies on the Guardian’s Politics Weekly America podcast:
Can George Santos outrun his lies? Politics Weekly America
Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen https://audio.guim.co.uk/2020/05/05-61553-gnl.fw.200505.jf.ch7DW.mp3
Robert Hur previously served as US attorney for Maryland during the Trump administration.
Attorney general Merrick Garland has asked Robert Hur to handle the investigation into Biden’s classified documents, putting a justice department veteran whose most recent government service was as a Donald Trump-appointed US attorney in a role that could upend his presidency.
 that Democrats remember his work as US attorney for Maryland fondly. “He handled himself with real professionalism when he was U.S. attorney in Maryland,” the state’s Democratic senator 
, a House Democrat from the state and noted Trump foe, said Hur had a “good reputation.”
, who was deputy attorney general under Trump, said Hur was his “point person” for dealing with one of the men the former president liked least: 
, the special counsel who led the investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election.
The House armed services committee is also requesting details about the classified documents found in Joe Biden’s possession.
earlier this week wrote to two defense officials requesting details on what the documents contained, and how they had been handled.
You can read the letter below:
Read the full letter here ⬇️
Chuck Schumer is one of Biden’s top allies in the Senate. 
Needless to say, this is turning into a headache for 
The party has been on a roll lately, doing much better in the November midterms than expected and then being gifted with Republican disarray in the House and 
Now, they’re back to playing defense after 
 was found to be doing something similar to what has gotten Trump into so much trouble: possessing classified documents. 
There are substantial differences to the two cases
, but party leaders nonetheless are being called upon to answer for their president.
“It’s much too early to tell,” Senate majority leader 
today replied on CNN, when asked if he believes Biden broke the law. “I think president Biden has handled this correctly. He’s fully cooperated with the prosecutors … it’s total contrast to president Trump, who stonewalled for a whole year.”
With special prosecutors looking into both men’s cases, Schumer called for patience. “We should let it play out, we don’t have to push them in any direction or try to influence them,” he said.
“Let the special prosecutors do their job,” Schumer said, adding that he supports the appointment of 
 to that role in the Biden case.
You can watch the full interview here:
House Republicans launch another investigation into Biden classified documents
Republicans on the House judiciary committee have announced their own investigation of the classified documents found at 
’s home and former office, sending a letter to the attorney general, 
, demanding details of the inquiry.
“We are conducting oversight of the Justice Department’s actions with respect to former Vice President Biden’s mishandling of classified documents, including the apparently unauthorized possession of classified material at a Washington, D.C. private office and in the garage of his Wilmington, Delaware residence. On January 12, 2023, you appointed 
 as Special Counsel to investigate these matters. The circumstances of this appointment raise fundamental oversight questions that the Committee routinely examines. We expect your complete cooperation with our inquiry,” the committee’s chair 
The letter notes that the documents were first discovered just before the midterm elections in November, and accuses the justice department of departing “from how it acted in similar circumstances,” notable the inquiry into 
. The committee members demand Garland turn over an array of documents related to the Biden investigation by 27 January.
The investigation is the second to be announced by the House GOP since reports of the documents’ discovery first emerged this week. The other is being pursued by 
 of the oversight committee, who is playing a major role in the Republicans’ campaign of investigations against the White House.
Biden to give State of the Union address on 7 February
 will make the annual State of the Union speech on 7 February, after the president accepted a formal invitation from House speaker 
It is my solemn obligation to invite the president to speak before a Joint Session of Congress on February 7th so that he may fulfill his duty under the Constitution to report on the state of the union. 
In a statement confirming his attendance, White House press secretary 
“The President is grateful for and accepts Speaker McCarthy’s prompt invitation to address the peoples’ representatives in Congress,” she said. “He looks forward to speaking with 
, Democrats, and the country about how we can work together to continue building an economy that works from the bottom up and the middle out, keep boosting our competitiveness in the world, keep the American people safe, and bring the country together.”
Looping back to Donald Trump’s legal troubles, here’s a little more about the situation in New York and beyond.
 doesn’t end Trump’s battle with Manhattan district attorney 
, who said the sentencing “closes this important chapter of our ongoing investigation into the former president and his businesses. We now move on to the next chapter,” the Associated Press writes.
Manhattan district attorney Alvin Bragg last month in New York.
Bragg, in office for little more than a year, inherited the Trump Organization case and the investigation into the former president from his predecessor, 
At the same time, New York attorney general 
 is suing Trump and the Trump Organization, alleging they misled banks and others about the value of its many assets, including golf courses and skyscrapers – a practice she dubbed 
 – a parody of Trump’s long-ago bestselling ghostwritten book about getting rich The Art of the Deal.
James, a Democrat, is asking a court to ban Trump and his three eldest children from running any New York-based company and is seeking to fine them at least $250 million. A judge has set an October trial date and appointed a monitor for the company while the case is pending.
New York Attorney General Letitia James speaks at a nurses strike and rally outside of Mount Sinai Hospital on Monday, January 9, 2023 in New York City.
Trump faces several other legal challenges as he ramps up his presidential campaign.
 in Atlanta has investigated whether Trump and his allies committed any crimes while trying to overturn his 2020 election loss in Georgia.
Last month, the House January 6 committee voted to 
 to the Justice Department for Trump’s role in sparking the violent insurrection at the US Capitol. The FBI is also investigating Trump’s storage of classified documents.
During last year’s Trump Org trial, assistant district attorney 
 told jurors that Trump himself had a role in the fraud scheme, showing them a lease that the Republican signed himself for now-convicted finance chief Allen Weisselberg’s perk apartment that was kept off the tax books.
“Mr Trump is explicitly sanctioning tax fraud,” Steinglass argued.
Biden to address voting rights, civil rights in sermon at MLK church
Joe Biden this weekend will become the first sitting US president to speak at a Sunday service at Ebenezer Baptist church in Atlanta, Georgia, where civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr was a pastor.
Biden is expected to address the ongoing struggle to protect voting rights in the US, despite his 
 to persuade Congress to pass key related legislation, to 
 of activists and organizers, especially in Georgia and the south.
At the White House press briefing ongoing now, former Atlanta mayor
, now senior adviser for public engagement at the White House, talked of the importance of the president’s visit this Sunday, ahead of Martin Luther King Day, the federal holiday that marks the birthday of the assassinated icon.
Senior adviser for public engagement Keisha Lance Bottoms speaking at a White House press briefing today.
She said that there was “more work to do” to protect democracy and acknowledged that the Biden administration’s two pieces of voting rights legislation have not made it through Congress.
She noted that Biden has been invited to the church by Georgia’s recently re-elected Democratic senator 
, who is a pastor at the Ebenezer Baptist church. The church was also regularly attended by the late congressman and lifelong civil rights activist 
Biden will meet members of King’s family and leaders of the 
 in Atlanta during his visit on Sunday and Monday.
joined White House press secretary 
, who pointed out that she and the former mayor are examples of “Black women who have broken barriers” on the shoulders of the civil rights movement.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre takes a question as she and senior adviser for public engagement Keisha Lance Bottoms take part in the daily briefing in the Brady briefing room of the White House in Washington DC.
was fined $1.6m by a judge
 after being convicted of tax fraud charges, but the Manhattan district attorney 
 that’s not the end of his investigation into the former president’s businesses. Meanwhile in Washington, 
 the US government will hit its legal borrowing limit on Thursday and could default in the summer, unless Congress acts to increase it. Republicans controlling the House have said they won’t cooperate unless government spending is cut, ensuring this is going to turn into a big fight at some point.
Here’s what else has happened today so far:
 doesn’t trust his Secret Service detail, 
according to a new book about his presidency
The top House Republican government watchdog
’s business dealings with the inquiry into classified documents found at the president’s properties.
 to two people hired by Trump’s attorneys to look for any secret materials in his possession.
US to hit debt ceiling on 19 January, Treasury says, but default months away
The US government will hit the legal limit on how much debt it can carry on 19 January, but it should have enough money to operate until at least early June, Treasury secretary 
“I am writing to inform you that beginning on Thursday, January 19, 2023, the outstanding debt of the United States is projected to reach the statutory limit. Once the limit is reached, Treasury will need to start taking certain extraordinary measures to prevent the United States from defaulting on its obligations,” the secretary wrote 
in a letter to Republican House speaker 
“While Treasury is not currently able to provide an estimate of how long extraordinary measures will enable us to continue to pay the government’s obligations, it is unlikely that cash and extraordinary measures will be exhausted before early June.”
Republicans in the House have signaled they won’t agree to increase the debt ceiling unless the Biden administration and its Democratic allies in Congress agree to reduce spending, though it remains unclear what areas of the budget the GOP wants to cut. Raising the borrowing limit is one of the few pieces of leverage House 
 have over the Democrats, but the strategy is not without risks. A failure to increase the ceiling could lead to the United States defaulting on its debt for the first time in its history, likely with serious consequences for the economy.
The Republican-controlled House Oversight Committee is attempting to make two alleged scandals into one: the investigation of classified materials found at Joe Biden’s properties, and their inquiry into his son Hunter Biden’s business activities.
 has sent the White House a new demand for information about whether Hunter had access to the garage at Joe Biden’s Delaware residence where it was revealed yesterday some classified material was found:
 presses the White House about classified docs stashed at Biden&#39;s Wilmington home.
We have docs revealing this address appeared on Hunter&#39;s driver&#39;s license as recently as 2018, the same time he was cutting deals with foreign adversaries.
Even before Biden took office, Republicans have been trying to find evidence of corruption in Hunter Biden’s business dealings, and of his father’s involvement. They have had 
 in doing that, but this week’s revelations that classified materials were found at Biden’s residence and an office he once used in Washington DC have given them new material to attack his administration. Yesterday, 
 a special counsel to look into the matter.
The trial of members of the Proud Boys militia group over their involvement in the January 6 insurrection is continuing in Washington DC, today with testimony from a Capitol police officer.
’s testimony contains fresh reminders of the violence that day, as Politico reports:
Radio transmissions show Capiotl Police leaders pleading with officers to get off the inaugural stage scaffolding, worried it was going to collapse. &quot;If they&#39;re going to lock the capitol down, we can&#39;t be up here when they breach,&quot; someone yells.
Joe Biden doesn’t trust his Secret Service detail, fearing that some of them remain loyal to 
, Vox reports, citing a new book about his presidency.
“The Fight of His Life” by 
chronicles the past two years of Biden’s presidency from a positive perspective, 
, and in particular shows the degree to which he loathes his predecessor. Biden, for instance, believes the White House’s Resolute desk was “tainted” by Trump’s use and unsuccessfully asked to swap it out for one used by Democratic icon 
When it comes to the Secret Service, he minds what he says around them, believing that agents harbor sympathies for the former president. He also thinks they lied about an incident where his dog Major bit an agent.
Reached by Vox, the White House wouldn’t comment directly on the book’s content.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
