The Guardian view on Europe’s radical right: crossing the cordon sanitaire | Editorial | The Guardian
Progressive politics must respond to the normalisation of formerly fringe views that are now mainstream
The Guardian - Back to home
The Italian prime minister, Giorgia Meloni, and her deputy, Matteo Salvini, whose anti-immigration League party is part of her radical-right coalition.
The Italian prime minister, Giorgia Meloni, and her deputy, Matteo Salvini, whose anti-immigration League party is part of her radical-right coalition.
 This article is more than 
The Guardian view on Europe’s radical right: crossing the cordon sanitaire
This article is more than 4 months old
Progressive politics must respond to the normalisation of formerly fringe views that are now mainstream
Tue 27 Dec 2022 18.30 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.37 GMT
he legacy of a seismic political autumn is beginning to unfold. Just before politics adjourned for the Christmas break, the migration minister in Sweden’s new rightwing government announced a plan to make it easier to revoke residence permits for immigrants. Maria Malmer Stenergard belongs to the centre-right Moderate party, but at her 
 during the press conference was Henrik Vinge, the deputy leader of the Sweden Democrats.
A radical-right party that originated in fringe neo-Nazi movements, the Sweden Democrats are not part of the governing coalition. In fact, until the 
 election in September, when the party finished second, it had been judged beyond the pale and excluded from power. Technically that remains the case. But – as Mr Vinge’s presence testified – the reality is very different. Dependent on the Sweden Democrats’ support to stay in office, the prime minister, Ulf Kristersson, allows it to exert significant influence, particularly on favourite topics such as migration and crime.
In consensual Sweden then, the cordon sanitaire around the radical right has been discreetly lowered. In Rome, 1,500 miles to the south, a still more startling and far-reaching process of political detoxification has taken place. Four years ago, Giorgia Meloni was a firebrand leader of a party with neo-fascist roots, which scored 4% at the 2018 elections. Following Italy’s 
 in the autumn, which followed hard on the heels of Sweden’s, she is the country’s prime minister. Her radical-right coalition also contains Matteo Salvini and his anti-immigration League party.
In October, Ms Meloni joined her close political ally in Hungary, Viktor Orbán (emphatically re-elected last spring), and Poland’s prime minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, to 
 at a rally organised by Vox – a hardline Spanish nationalist party. “Long live the Europe of patriots,” said Ms Meloni in a video message. Polls suggest Vox, founded in 2013, could – like the Sweden Democrats – land a kingmaker role at elections next year.
Once shunned and confined to the periphery of postwar European politics, radical-right movements have thus penetrated the political mainstream. In France, the idea of the cordon sanitaire was conceived to deal with the rise of the Vichy apologist Jean-Marie Le Pen. His daughter, Marine, has effectively broken through it, as she prepares to contest a third presidential election when Emmanuel Macron steps down. A 
 this month for Le Monde found that 48% considered Le Pen and her party to represent a “patriotic right”, compared with 36% who associated her with the “nationalist and xenophobic right”. The survey also found that Rassemblement National’s substantial presence in the French Assembly, following last spring’s election, means that it is seen by most voters as the main opposition to Mr Macron.
Normalisation has been a decade-long process. The crash, the eurozone debt crisis and the misguided austerity policies that followed inculcated anti-elite sentiment, allowing the radical right a hearing. Anti-lockdown sentiment and conspiracy theorising during the pandemic have offered further opportunities. But it is, above all, on the issue of migration that views once considered extreme are now dictating the terms of mainstream debate.
For it is not only in Ms Meloni’s Italy, or Mr Orbán’s Hungary, that “
” rhetoric is determining policy towards migration from Africa, Asia and the Middle East. Denmark’s Social Democrats regained power in 2019 by 
 the approach of the populist, anti-immigrant Danish People’s party. Under the leadership of the prime minister, Mette Frederiksen – who has just won a second term – the Social Democrats have backed a cap on non-western immigration, and in 2021 Denmark became the first European country to try to send refugees back to Syria.
On economic matters, the outlook is less bleak. In the context of an energy and cost of living crisis, access to power has been accompanied by a cautious moderation of tone. As Britain rues the chaotic consequences of its Brexit referendum, for example, leaving the EU no longer features in the radical-right playbook. Ms Meloni knows that she must ensure Italy’s access to €200bn of EU recovery fund money, and has taken care to operate within the policy guardrails established by her technocratic predecessor, Mario Draghi. A radical tax-cutting programme has been scaled back. On Ukraine, Ms Meloni has remained in lockstep with Brussels and Washington.
Money has also talked in the east, where Poland and Hungary have played cat-and-mouse games with the EU as it seeks to impose rule of law and anti-corruption norms. Amid acute financial pressures and domestic discontent, this month Warsaw 
 to judicial reforms required by Brussels in order to access €34bn in post-pandemic funding. Faced with member states that delight in rejecting its values and norms, the EU is increasingly prepared to use financial firepower to fight back.
But as the future of Europe is defined in a volatile and increasingly multipolar world, weaponising fiscal largesse may not be enough. On issues such as LGBT and minority rights, abortion, race and immigration, the empowered nationalist right will seek to undermine liberal norms in the name of an authoritarian worldview that has little interest in universal rights. For the EU, which remains an essentially technocratic organisation, this is treacherous terrain. In a new book entitled Europe’s Coming of Age, an adviser to former presidents of the 
, Loukas Tsoukalis, notes that, as essentially bureaucratic organisations, “Brussels institutions are never comfortable dealing with identity and cultural issues”. The same could be said of the European centre-left, which has been slow to grasp the resentments and grievances exploited and then channelled into culture wars by formerly fringe populists.
Europe’s population is ageing and shrinking as a result of declining birthrates, and migrant labour will become an economic necessity in the decades ahead. Among the young, liberal attitudes on social questions are deeply entrenched and will ultimately shape the future. But an illiberal counterinsurgency, with roots in once-ostracised political traditions, has installed itself at the heart of the European body politic. In 2023 and beyond, progressive forces must find ways to understand its appeal more deeply and offer different, better solutions. Working towards a humane, fair and functioning Europe-wide policy on refugees and migration would be a start.
 This article was amended on 28 December 2022. Loukas Tsoukalis is an adviser to former presidents of the European Commission, not a former president himself as an earlier version said.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
