Nicola Sturgeon says Scotland secretary is acting like a governor general | Scottish politics | The Guardian
First minister says Alister Jack’s block on gender law marks ‘new and more dangerous phase for devolution’
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Nicola Sturgeon during first minster's questions at the Scottish parliament in Edinburgh on Thursday.
Nicola Sturgeon during first minster's questions at the Scottish parliament in Edinburgh on Thursday.
 This article is more than 
Nicola Sturgeon says Scotland secretary is acting like a governor general
This article is more than 3 months old
First minister says Alister Jack’s block on gender law marks ‘new and more dangerous phase for devolution’
UK politics live – latest news updates
Fri 20 Jan 2023 09.46 GMT
Last modified on Fri 20 Jan 2023 09.54 GMT
Nicola Sturgeon has accused the Scotland secretary of acting “like a governor general” in a further escalation of hostilities between the Westminster and Holyrood governments.
Scotland’s first minister said Alister Jack’s decision to 
block her government’s gender recognition law
 marked “a new and more dangerous phase for devolution”, hours after he refused an invitation from the Holyrood equalities committee to discuss the move.
In a speech to the Business for 
 annual dinner in Glasgow on Thursday night, the Scottish National party leader said: “The Tories have broken cover. The stealth attacks have been joined by a full-frontal assault – the decision of the Tory government to strike down a law clearly within devolved competence which was passed overwhelmingly in the Scottish parliament, and which was supported by MSPs from all parties.”
Jack told MPs on Tuesday he was making a 
 under the 1998 Scotland Act, which created the devolved parliament, to prevent the gender recognition reform bill – passed by Holyrood at the end of December – from receiving royal assent.
Westminster has dragged trans people into its attack on Scotland’s powers | Shona Robison
This prompted a furious response from nationalists and supporters of the bill’s key aim to simplify how an individual changes their legal gender, who accuse the UK government of dragging trans people into a cynical attack on devolution.
Jack argues the Holyrood bill has significant implications for UK-wide equality legislation, which is reserved to Westminster, with ramifications for equal pay, single-sex schools, and single-sex membership of cross-UK clubs or associations.
Sturgeon added: “Through his actions the UK government secretary of state for Scotland is demonstrating he is sadly not interested in working in partnership. He’s decided to act like a governor general: treating the Scottish parliament as a subordinate body and deciding which democratic decisions and laws to veto.”
Also on Thursday, Jack told Holyrood’s equalities committee, which scrutinised the gender bill last year, that he was unable to attend its meeting next Tuesday. He suggested Kemi Badenoch, the UK equalities minister, was the more appropriate minister to invite and the committee has done so.
Immediately after, Holyrood’s constitution committee wrote to Jack, asking him to give evidence on 26 January at a session about the constitutional implications of the section 35 order.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Speaking on a levelling up visit to the Palace theatre in Kilmarnock, Jack said the “ball is in [the Scottish government’s] court”, suggesting it could “look at the legislation again”.
He said he did not take the decision “at all lightly”, adding: “This is not about trans, it’s not a culture war, it is entirely about a bill which legally cuts across UK-wide legislation.”
Trans violent offenders banned from women’s prisons in England and Wales
Transgender prison row heightens safety fears in Scotland’s LGBTQ+ community
Scottish leadership election leaves gender reform hanging in balance
Trans prisoners in Scotland to be first sent to jails matching their birth gender
SNP opposition to gender recognition reform should be ‘respected’, Commons leader says
Scottish ministers say they did not know trans rapist was put in women’s jail
Scotland says transgender prisoners with violent pasts will not go to women’s jails
Why Scotland’s gender reform bill is sparking concern over trans prisoner policies
Trans woman found guilty of rape moved to men’s prison
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
