PPE Medpro: Michelle Mone-linked firm referred to UK health watchdog  | Michelle Mone | The Guardian
DHSC accused PPE Medpro of presenting false document when tendering for PPE contracts
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Michelle Mone has been under intense pressure since leaked bank documents reveal her links to PPE Medpro’s government deals.
Michelle Mone has been under intense pressure since leaked bank documents reveal her links to PPE Medpro’s government deals.
 This article is more than 
PPE Medpro: Michelle Mone-linked firm referred to UK health watchdog 
This article is more than 4 months old
DHSC accused PPE Medpro of presenting false document when tendering for PPE contracts
UK politics live – latest news updates
Fri 6 Jan 2023 18.27 GMT
A company linked to the Conservative peer 
 was referred to the UK’s health products watchdog for an investigation after it allegedly presented a false document to the government when tendering for PPE contracts.
The referral of the company, PPE Medpro, was described in a high court document made public this week, setting out the 
 by the Department of Health and Social Care. The DHSC is seeking the return of £122m in public money it paid for the supply of sterile surgical gowns, plus £11.6m for storing and disposing of them.
It has accused PPE Medpro of delivering gowns that were not sterile, did not comply with the regulations for the production of medical devices, and could have compromised patients’ safety had they been used in the NHS.
The DHSC awarded that gowns contract, and another contract worth £80.85m for the supply of face masks, to PPE Medpro within weeks of 
 in May 2020 offering to supply PPE through “my team in Hong Kong”.
PPE Medpro: UK government alleges firm supplied defective gowns to NHS
In the court document setting out its claim, the DHSC states that PPE Medpro “made multiple offers to supply different types of PPE”. The referral of the company to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) related to a different tendering process from the one that led to the DHSC granting the company the gowns contract, the legal claim states.
“[PPE Medpro] was found to have supplied a test report (numbered SHAT06648491) purporting to be from an entity called Intertek, but which Intertek denied having issued. As a result, PPE Medpro was referred to the MHRA’s compliance unit for further investigation.”
Surgical gowns in a page from PPE Medpro’s catalogue.
 is a large, global, UK stock market-listed quality assurance company, which provides technical testing, inspection and safety certification services in a wide range of 
PPE Medpro did not respond to a question from the Guardian this week about the DHSC’s allegation that it supplied an allegedly false document purporting to have been produced by Intertek, nor about the referral to the MHRA. Regarding the DHSC’s legal claim, the company said it refuted all the allegations, argued that the gowns it supplied did meet “correct quality standards and specification”, and said it will “rigorously defend” the court action.
In a statement, Intertek said: “We are not involved in the MHRA investigation or court process. We have reviewed the reference to us in the court document and we have no further comment to make.”
An MHRA spokesperson said the agency could not confirm the outcome of the referral to its compliance unit: “We are not able to provide updates regarding the state of any referrals or investigations due to the confidentiality requirements set out in the Medicines and Medical Devices Act 2021.
“However, we review all information and referrals we receive and where necessary we will take appropriate regulatory action.”
Mone has been under intense public and political pressure since the Guardian reported in November that leaked bank documents indicated she and her three adult children 
 originating from PPE Medpro’s profits on the government deals. Her lawyer told the Guardian at the time: “There are a number of reasons why our client cannot comment on these issues and she is under no duty to do so.”
Mone has previously denied via her lawyers that she had any involvement in PPE Medpro, despite her approach to ministers in May 2020 and the Guardian reporting last year, based on leaked files, that she 
did appear to have been secretly involved
. Her lawyer has also said she did not declare PPE Medpro on her Lords register of interests because “she did not benefit financially and was not connected to PPE Medpro in any capacity”.
Lawyers for Mone did not respond to requests for comment about the DHSC’s legal claim or the purported Intertek document.
PPE Medpro is the subject of an 
 by the National Crime Agency (NCA). Lawyers for PPE Medpro have declined to comment on the NCA investigation.
HMRC names three schemes linked to Mone’s husband as tax avoidance
PPE Medpro: UK government alleges firm supplied defective gowns to NHS
Ministers warned not to delay releasing PPE Medpro documents
PPE Medpro: UK government launches action to recover £122m 
Rishi Sunak ‘absolutely shocked’ by Michelle Mone allegations
Ministers to release papers relating to firm recommended by Michelle Mone
Tories in hiding as Commons scrutinises Michelle Mone’s Covid fortunes
Revealed: Second firm pushed by Michelle Mone was secret entity of husband’s office
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
