Met chief says London is ‘fantastically safe’ as homicide rate falls | Metropolitan police | The Guardian
Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley says UK capital is a place to ‘live, work and enjoy yourself’
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Jas Athwal, leader of Redbridge council, the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, and the Met commissioner, Sir Mark Rowley, visit a boxing gym in Ilford.
Jas Athwal, leader of Redbridge council, the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, and the Met commissioner, Sir Mark Rowley, visit a boxing gym in Ilford.
 This article is more than 
Met chief says London is ‘fantastically safe’ as homicide rate falls
This article is more than 4 months old
Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley says UK capital is a place to ‘live, work and enjoy yourself’
UK politics live – latest news updates
Fri 6 Jan 2023 12.19 GMT
Last modified on Fri 6 Jan 2023 12.30 GMT
 commissioner has described London as a “fantastically safe” city as the force announced a drop in homicide rates last year.
Sir Mark Rowley said the capital was a place to “live, work and enjoy yourself” as he visited a boxing gym in Ilford, east 
Alongside the mayor of London, 
, the commissioner met the Box Up Crime founder, Stephen Addison, who set up the club to provide vulnerable young people with a community and a path away from crime.
It came as the force promised it was cracking down on offences targeting youngsters, releasing figures that showed the number of teenage killings halved in 2022.
Rowley said: “London is a fantastically safe global city. Of course no city’s perfect, but if you look at crime rates … it’s a safe place to live and work and enjoy yourself.”
He was pressed on his plan to 
 within the Met after a string of high-profile convictions of officers for serious offences. Asked about his plans to rebuild public trust in Britain’s biggest police force, he said: “I have got tens of thousands of men and women who are fantastic people, who care and want to make a difference.
“Sadly I’ve got hundreds I need to sort out and who shouldn’t be in the organisation and as we do that you’ll hear more. But I’ve got many, many more people who care about Londoners than some of those awful individuals that should never have been police officers.”
The Met has vowed to increase high-visibility patrols and boost community policing focused on preventing robbery after recent figures from Ilford showed 36% of mugging victims were aged 18 or younger. It said there had been 71 arrests for robbery since November.
The total number of homicides recorded under Home Office counting rules for 2022 was 109, which was 17% down on 2021, the Met said. Nine homicides were gun enabled in 2022, a 25% fall and the lowest figure since 2014. Sixty-nine homicides were knife enabled, a 17% reduction and equal to the pre-pandemic figure for 2019.
Rowley and Khan – alongside the Redbridge council leader, Jas Athwal, who helped launch Box Up 
 – heard success stories from a number of young people who have been supported by the gym. Among them was 18-year-old Fabian Williams, who took up horse riding after getting active at Box Up and is now a keen equestrian with ambitions to reach the Olympics.
Others included 25-year-old Reno Turner, who was encouraged by mentors to pursue music under the name Txrner, and the 24-year-old dancer Elvire Mavusi Matu, who now teaches her own classes after setting up the group Konverse Dance Crews.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Rowley said: “They were inspirational stories about young people having their lives turned round by this boxing club. We’re the police, we can suppress violence, we focus as hard as possible on arresting the most dangerous people … but we need partners like this to work with who can grab those kids at the right moment in their life and turn it around and give them purpose.”
Khan said: “We know we cannot arrest our way out of violence and that’s why my violence reduction unit is supporting young Londoners, intervening at critical stages in their lives and providing them with positive opportunities, support and mentors – particularly during this cost of living crisis, so they can succeed and thrive.”
Athwal said: “This visit was a great opportunity to show the new Met commissioner and the mayor of London around Ilford and share the work we are doing to make the town centre safer for our neighbours.”
Family of missing teenager have lost trust in Met after Levi Bellfield confession
MoJ and police row on Twitter over pressure on rape victims to hand over therapy notes
IOPC to investigate Met police officers after man Tasered and two dogs shot dead 
Met police under investigation over man’s fatal fall after Taser shooting
Met police officers sacked for punching and kicking child during arrest
Scotland Yard admits failing to hand over documents to Daniel Morgan inquiry
Family of woman Levi Bellfield claims to have murdered say Met failed them
McDonald’s offered Met police cheap burgers and free drinks during XR protests
Police Federation chair accepts Met is institutionally racist, sexist and homophobic
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
