Are you bored yet? Let Gore Vidal, giant spiders and a talking nutcracker bring the drama back | Theatre | The Guardian
Five absolute crackers for theatre-lovers, from streaming Shakespeare to a Neil Gaiman fantasy at the Lowry
The Guardian - Back to home
Nia Towle (Lettie Hempstock), Penny Layden (Old Mrs Hempstock), Siubhan Harrison (Ginnie Hempstock) and James Bamford (the Boy) in The Ocean at the End of the Lane.
Nia Towle (Lettie Hempstock), Penny Layden (Old Mrs Hempstock), Siubhan Harrison (Ginnie Hempstock) and James Bamford (the Boy) in The Ocean at the End of the Lane.
Are you bored yet? Let Gore Vidal, giant spiders and a talking nutcracker bring the drama back
Five absolute crackers for theatre-lovers, from streaming Shakespeare to a Neil Gaiman fantasy at the Lowry
Wed 28 Dec 2022 15.00 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.37 GMT
ow is the perfect time to treat yourself to the collective joys of live performance. There is plenty of traditional seasonal fare out there, from pantomimes to re-spun fairy stories and the usual glut of 
 Carols, but if you want something a bit different, here are five original family shows that will entertain and invigorate the spirit.
The Ocean at the End of the Lane
This is a sparky, adrenaline-filled extravaganza with dark edges. Adapted from Neil Gaiman’s fantasy novel, it stops at the Lowry as part of a UK-wide tour. A 12-year-old boy and his friend come up against an alternate world of terrifying monsters in a rural Sussex backwater, from gargantuan spiders to shape-shifting worms. Directed by Katy Rudd and originally 
staged as a quirky festival show at the National Theatre
, it transferred to the West End in a production with added thrills, spills and scary bits.
No, not the ballet but the all-singing, all-dancing musical, written by the venue’s outgoing artistic director Tom Morris. While the original 1892 ballet accompanied by Tchaikovsky’s music is better known, this production, inspired by ETA Hoffman’s short story, The Nutcracker and the Mouse King (on which the ballet’s libretto is based), is a bold musical retelling that captures the adventures of magical toys that come to life at the stroke of midnight, including a dastardly Mouse King and a talking nutcracker. A seasonal show given a delightful twist.
The Nutcracker at Bristol Old Vic.
This fun and fabulously combative drama, which re-enacts the gladiatorial televised clash between American thinkers Gore Vidal and William F Buckley Jr, in the lead-up to the presidential elections of 1968, is as far away from festive fare as you can get. But it is also James Graham at his playwriting best, and ideal for anyone who has had their fill of Christmas spirit. Starring David Harewood and Zachary Quinto, the production traces a line back to the birth of celebrity-led politics and antagonistic TV debate while the excellent TV studio set captures the spirit of the 1960s. Guaranteed entertainment that will get the brain cells fizzing, too.
The Book of Dust – La Belle Sauvage
This adaptation of Philip Pullman’s captivating fantasy features the adventures of a boy, a girl and a newborn (Lyra Belacqua) caught in an almighty flood while being chased by the Magisterium. Originally staged at the Bridge theatre in London, it is a thing of beauty with bewitching performances, exquisite puppets and engulfing graphics. Adapted by Bryony Lavery and directed by Nicholas Hytner, who brought Pullman’s trilogy, His Dark Materials, to the stage almost two decades ago, it is fast, propulsive storytelling with dazzling visual effects.
This upbeat modern-dress comedy of shipwrecked twins, love triangles, cakes and ale has Americana, live music and lots of laughs. Staged at Shakespeare’s Globe last year, there is inspired casting in George Fouracres as the drunken, disorderly Sir Andrew Aguecheek. The comedian, dressed in pastels and cravat, brings fey and supremely winning silliness to the part along with his madcap group of revellers. The play’s darker aspects are underplayed in Sean Holmes’s production and the whole thing becomes a rollicking comedy.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
