House committee votes to release Donald Trump’s tax returns – as it happened | US politics | The Guardian
Records to be shared with public after committee spends hours in private deliberation
Sign up to receive First Thing – our daily briefing by email
The Guardian - Back to home
 This article is more than 
House committee votes to release Donald Trump’s tax returns – as it happened
This article is more than 4 months old
Records to be shared with public after committee spends hours in private deliberation
Sign up to receive First Thing – our daily briefing by email
Wed 21 Dec 2022 01.57 GMT
First published on Tue 20 Dec 2022 14.14 GMT
House committee votes to release Trump's tax returns
Ukrainian president may visit US tomorrow to make an address to Congress
Report: House panel 'extensively cooperating' with justice department over Trump evidence
Panel convenes for vote on Trump tax secrets
Leahy stands down with call for unity
Congress to vote on $1.7tn government spending deal
House panel prepares to share Trump tax secrets
A House committee has voted to release Donald Trump’s tax returns.
A House committee has voted to release Donald Trump’s tax returns.
Wed 21 Dec 2022 01.57 GMT
First published on Tue 20 Dec 2022 14.14 GMT
Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature
Sources tell CNN Zelenskiy is ‘already on his way’ to Washington 
 is “already on his way to the US” for a planned meeting with leaders of both parties and an address to Congress, two sources tell CNN.
Two sources say President Zelensky is already on his way to the U.S. for the groundbreaking visit to Washington, his first outside of Ukraine since the Russian invasion began, 
 and I are told by two sources.
Multiple news outlets already reported that a planned Washington trip for Zelenskiy was in the works. The historic meeting comes as lawmakers are due to vote on a year-end spending package that includes about $45bn in emergency assistance to Ukraine and the US prepares to send Patriot surface-to-air missiles to the country to help stave off Russia’s invasion.
House committee votes to release Trump's tax returns
Ukrainian president may visit US tomorrow to make an address to Congress
Report: House panel 'extensively cooperating' with justice department over Trump evidence
Panel convenes for vote on Trump tax secrets
Leahy stands down with call for unity
Congress to vote on $1.7tn government spending deal
House panel prepares to share Trump tax secrets
Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature
There’s been plenty of US political news today, as House Democrats in Washington rush to finish their goals before the 
 take majority control in the new year. We’re wrapping up our live coverage for today, but there will be more coverage tomorrow. Some key events:
 is expected to visit Washington DC on Wednesday to meet with political leaders in both parties and address a joint session of Congress. The visit, which would be Zelenskiy’s first known trip outside the country since Russia invaded Ukraine in February, comes as US lawmakers are expected to vote on a spending package that includes 
 to Ukraine and the US prepares to send 
 voted to publicly release information about 
’s tax returns, after a years-long battle and Trump’s refusal to voluntarily release his returns, as other candidates for president have done for decades. While some of the tax information must be redacted before it’s released, 
two reports on Trump’s taxes are expected to be made public later tonight
Tensions remained high at the US-Mexico border amid uncertainty over the future of Trump-era restrictions on asylum-seekers, with the 
to lift Title 42 restrictions, but not to lift the limits before Christmas.
Republican politicians have had a fairly muted response to yesterday’s historic recommendation by the House January 6 committee that Trump face criminal charges for his actions in the last days of his presidency.
How soon will information about Trump’s tax returns be released?
Some of the Trump tax documentation that the House ways and means committee has voted to release will need to be redacted, with sensitive information like social security numbers removed. That could take days, reporters in Washington have said.
But CNN and CBS are reporting that two “reports on the returns” will be released later tonight, according to Richard Neal, the committee chair.
Just asked Richard Neal how soon Donald Trump’s tax returns will be public. He said it would take a few days for certain info to be redacted. But there will be A LOT released in a matter of days. But reports on the returns will be out tonight
House Ways and Means chairman Richard Neal tells reporters tonight it will take a “few days” to release the Trump tax returns to the public, saying the committee must first make redactions.
The public will get to see two *reports* related to the returns tonight. 
NYT: IRS failed to audit Trump’s tax filings during his first two years in office
After voting to publicly release information from Trump’s tax returns, House Democrats “revealed that the materials they obtained showed that the IRS had failed to audit Trump’s tax filings during his first two years in office”,
 the New York Times’ Charlie Savage reported
More details on this as House 
 continue to speak publicly about what they found and what tax information they’ll be releasing in the coming days.
An image from earlier today: tax documents being wheeled around Washington
After hours of private deliberation, the House ways and means committee has voted to publicly release Donald Trump’s tax information, with some redactions of sensitive information. An image from outside the committee’s meeting room earlier today:
House Ways and Means committee aides wheel tax documents into the committee room ahead of the 3 pm meeting on Trump’s tax returns. 
And an image of reporters being briefed on the release of the Trump tax returns now:
Ways and Means committee chair Richard Neal briefs reporters on releasing Trump tax returns 
House committee votes to release Trump's tax returns
After hours of private deliberation, a congressional committee has voted to release Trump’s tax returns to the full 
, according to reporters at the committee meeting in Washington.
The materials will be released with some redactions of sensitive information, including addresses and Social Security numbers, NBC’s Sahil Kapur reports.
News: Ways &amp; Means Committee votes 24-16 to release Trump&#39;s tax information to the full House.
Chairman Richard Neal authorizes staff to redact &quot;sensitive personal identifiable information&quot; like Social Security numbers and street addresses so that those aren&#39;t made public. 
Speaking after the vote, Kevin Brady, a congressional Republican from Texas, 
 that the materials being released include “Trump’s tax returns for the last six years, including the returns from eight affiliated businesses” as well as “audit notes and trails on the audits” and said that “not all the audits are complete, which could lead to mischaracterizations”.
Sources tell CNN Zelenskiy is ‘already on his way’ to Washington 
 is “already on his way to the US” for a planned meeting with leaders of both parties and an address to Congress, two sources tell CNN.
Two sources say President Zelensky is already on his way to the U.S. for the groundbreaking visit to Washington, his first outside of Ukraine since the Russian invasion began, 
 and I are told by two sources.
Multiple news outlets already reported that a planned Washington trip for Zelenskiy was in the works. The historic meeting comes as lawmakers are due to vote on a year-end spending package that includes about $45bn in emergency assistance to Ukraine and the US prepares to send Patriot surface-to-air missiles to the country to help stave off Russia’s invasion.
court to end Title 42 migrant expulsions, with a delay
Tensions remained high at the US-Mexico border Tuesday amid uncertainty over the future of restrictions on asylum seekers, with the Biden administration asking the supreme court not to lift the limits before Christmas, the Associated Press reports.
The US government made its plea in a filing a day after chief justice John Roberts issued a temporary order to keep the pandemic-era limits on migrants in place, in response to a 
request from Republican officials in 19 states
. Before Roberts issued that order, the restrictions had been slated to expire Wednesday.
The Biden admin. just asked the Supreme Court to deny the GOP bid to delay the end of the Title 42 expulsions.
While it concedes Title 42&#39;s end may fuel a spike in migrant arrivals, the admin. says there&#39;s no longer a public health basis for the policy—which it calls &quot;obsolete.&quot; 
The federal government acknowledged in its filing to the supreme court that ending the restrictions will likely lead to “disruption and a temporary increase in unlawful border crossings”. But the government asked the court to reject efforts by a group of conservative-leaning states to maintain a measure that allows officials to expel many but not all asylum seekers.
Migrants have been denied rights to seek asylum under US and international law 2.5m times since March 2020 on grounds of preventing the spread of Covid-19 under a public-health rule called Title 42, a justification the Biden administration called “obsolete”, as CBS News reported.
Notably, the Biden admin. is seeking a temporary delay of Title 42&#39;s end, asking the Supreme Court to keep it in place until Dec. 27 if the court rules before Dec. 23. 
If the court rules on / after Dec. 23, it should keep Title 42 in place for two additional days, DOJ argues. 
The last-minute policy changes have been difficult for migrants and for the people working at the border to provide them with humanitarian assistance, Dylan Corbett, director of the Hope Border Institute, a Catholic organization helping migrants in both El Paso and Juárez, 
“You have a lot of pent-up pain,” Corbett said. “I’m afraid of what’s going to happen.” With
 “the majority of the work falls to faith communities to pick up the pieces and deal with the consequences”.
Confusion and tension high at US-Mexico border despite upholding of Covid-era rules 
The GOP’s ‘muted’ response to the
 recommendation to criminally charge Trump
A day after the January 6 committee recommended that the justice department 
 for his actions in the last days of his presidency, the response from Trump’s fellow Republicans has been muted, 
The Republican Party quickly and forcefully rallied behind Donald Trump in the hours after 
 from his Florida estate this summer.
Four months later, that sense of intensity and urgency was missing — at least for now — after the Jan
 the Justice Department bring criminal charges against him. Leading Republicans largely avoided the historic 
 Monday, while others pressed to weigh in offered muted defenses — or none at all.
 called for “an immediate and thorough explanation” after the FBI executed the August search warrant at Mar-a-Lago. On Monday, he told reporters he had only one “immediate observation” about the criminal referral: “The entire nation knows who is responsible for that day.” Sen. 
, who called for Attorney General Merrick Garland’s resignation in the wake of the search, was silent on the committee’s referral, focusing instead on alleged FBI missteps
The divergent responses are a sign of how quickly the political landscape has shifted for Trump as he faces a new legal threat and 
mounts a third bid for the presidency
. It’s a marked change for a party that has been defined, above all, by its unconditional loyalty to Trump under any and all circumstances for the last six years.
US visit would be Zelenskiy’s first known trip outside Ukraine since Russia’s invasion
If Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy does in fact complete a planned trip to the US tomorrow to address a joint session of Congress, it would be his first first known trip outside his country since Russia’s invasion began in February, the 
The planned visit comes as US lawmakers are set to vote on a year-end spending package that includes about $45bn in emergency assistance to Ukraine and as the US prepares to send Patriot surface-to-air missiles to the country to help stave off Russia’s invasion.
The latest tranche of US funding would be the biggest American infusion of assistance yet to Ukraine, above even Biden’s $37bn emergency request, and would ensure that funding flows to the war effort for months to come.
Ukrainian president may visit US tomorrow to make an address to Congress
Volodymyr Zelenskiy may visit the US on Wednesday to meet with leaders from both parties and make an address to Congress, Punchbowl reports, though the visit may still be called off for security reasons.
ZELENSKY&#39;S TRIP to washington was so tightly held that very, VERY few people in the Capitol knew
He is expected to address a joint session of Congress. This requires legislation, which the institution will have to process tomorrow
Multiple news outlets are reporting on efforts to bring Zelenskiy to Washington on Wednesday, which would be his first visit since Russia invaded Ukraine this past February.
Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, co-chair of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, tells CBS News tonight that there are ongoing, serious, behind-the-scenes efforts to bring Zelensky to the Capitol on Wednesday and to have him address Congress... But, she adds...
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi told members of Congress to prepare for a “very special session” on Wednesday evening, the Huffington Post reported.
Why the wait for the vote on releasing Trump’s tax returns could take a while
This is Lois Beckett, picking up our live 
The congressional House ways and means committee is currently in private session, discussing a vote on the release of details from Donald Trump’s tax returns. The transcript of the discussion will be made public later.
Releasing information about Trump’s tax returns is a move that Democrats have been fighting for, and that Republicans are opposing, arguing that it’s a privacy invasion, even though other presidential candidates for decades have 
Because the Republican party will take majority control of the 
 next year, thanks to their wins in the midterm elections, the clock is ticking on this effort.
Today’s private session has been going on for about two hours already, and it might keep going on for a while before there’s any news. Why? The ways and means committee has 42 members, and “If every lawmaker wants to make a speech and get into the transcript, it could take hours,” the 
New York Times’ Charlie Savage wrote
We don’t know what’s being said during this afternoon’s private session of the House ways and means committee discussing releasing Donald Trump’s tax returns.
 But we do know that Republican 
, the ranking member from Texas, is not thrilled at the prospect.
He spoke with reporters shortly before the meeting convened, complaining that releasing the documents publicly would give politicians the “power to embarrass, harass, or destroy Americans through disclosure of their tax returns”.
“No party in Congress should have that power. No individuals in Congress should have that power,” Brady says.
Kevin Brady (R-TX) warns that releasing Trump’s tax returns could lead to the release of tax returns of Supreme Court Justices 
Report: House panel 'extensively cooperating' with justice department over Trump evidence
The House January committee that on Monday referred 
 for criminal charges has been “extensively cooperating” with the justice department’s own investigation, according to a new report.
Punchbowl said Tuesday afternoon that the bipartisan committee began sending documents and transcripts of witness testimony last week after receiving a request from the justice department’s special prosecutor 
Punchbowl says it has reviewed Smith’s letter, sent on 5 December, asking for the entirety of the panel’s materials from its 18-month probe. The committee held its final meeting on Monday, 
issuing four criminal referrals for Trump
 over his efforts to reverse his 2020 defeat to 
, and is expected to release its final report on Wednesday.
Representatives of the committee declined to comment, Punchbowl says, but the development would be a reversal of its previous position. 
 there was “tension” between the justice department and committee members after the panel refused to hand over its evidence.
, a Mississippi Democrat, said at the time he thought the move would be “premature”.
Punchbowl says most of the evidence handed over in the last week “is in relation to former White House Chief of Staff 
the Trump lawyer at the center of the 
Eastman was also referred for criminal prosecution by the panel.
Additionally, Punchbowl says, the panel has transmitted all of Meadows’ text messages and related evidence, and transcripts of interviews with several witnesses related
to the fake electors scheme, and “the efforts by Trump and his allies to pressure states to overturn their election results, specifically in Georgia”.
The House panel interviewed more than 1,000 witnesses and reviewed over a million documents during its inquiry.
What has the January 6 House panel done so far – and what’s next?
Panel convenes for vote on Trump tax secrets
A decision on the public release of Donald Trump’s tax returns is imminent after a key congressional panel came to order on Tuesday afternoon for a vote.
, the Massachusetts Democrat who chairs the House ways and means committee, immediately ordered the hearing into “executive session”, which means the room was cleared for the hearing to proceed in private.
But the panel voted unanimously to approve a motion by Republican ranking member 
 of Texas for “the entirety of today’s executive transcript” later be made public, presumably subject to redactions of any sensitive information the panel feels shouldn’t be available.
Neal is updating members now on developments since the 
 to clear the delivery of the six years of Trump’s returns from the treasury department.
That decision ended a three-year fight by the former president to shield many of his closest financial secrets.
The committee’s vote is not expected until later this afternoon, but many analysts expect it to be a formality that the panel will release at least some of the information. What is unclear is what form that release might take.
Neal would not give details to reporters before today’s meeting, offering instead only a statement:
Nearly four years ago, the ways and means committee set out to fulfill our legislative and oversight responsibilities, and evaluate the Internal Revenue Service’s mandatory audit program.
As affirmed by the supreme court, the law was on our side, and on Tuesday, I will update the members of the Committee.
 have been fighting so hard to get it, and their majority in the House is in its final days, it’s reasonable to assume we’ll see something soon.
Some analysts expect to see an executive summary of the returns, while others say the full documents attached to a committee report are likely.
Of course, both could still happen. A vote this afternoon for any kind of public release would be another blow for the former president, who was 
referred to the justice department on Monday
 on four criminal charges relating to his insurrection over his 2020 election defeat.
As we reported earlier this month
, the House committee first requested Trump’s returns in 2019. Trump, who on 15 November began his 
 for the presidency, dragged the issue through the court system.
It was long customary, though not required, for major party presidential candidates to release their tax records. Trump was the first such candidate in four decades not to do so.
Here’s a look at the overhaul of the Electoral Count Act that’s incorporated within the bipartisan $1.7tn omnibus government spending bill, courtesy of the Associated Press, which says it’s the the most significant policy response so far to Donald Trump’s insurrection.
 of Maine, and Democrat 
 of West Virginia, along with members of the House January 6 panel, the legislation was added to the massive year-end spending bill unveiled early Tuesday, and which will be voted on this week.
The bill would amend the 19th century law that governs, along with the Constitution, how states and Congress certify electors and declare presidential election winners, ensuring that the popular vote from each state is protected from manipulation and that Congress does not arbitrarily decide presidential elections when it meets to count the votes every four years.
Trump and his supporters falsely insisted vice-president 
 could intervene and refuse to certify 
’s win in the 2020 election. The bill confirms the vice-president’s purely ceremonial role presiding over the certification every January 6 after a presidential election, and that the VP has no power to determine the results of the election.
Make it more difficult to object.
 Under current law, just one member of the Senate and one member of the House need to lodge an objection to automatically trigger votes in both chambers on whether to overturn or discard a state’s presidential election results. The bill would significantly raise that threshold, requiring a fifth of each chamber to object before votes would be held.
 The bill would ensure that there is only one slate of electors, a response to Trump allies’ unsuccessful efforts to create alternate, illegitimate slates of Trump electors in states that Biden narrowly won in 2020. Each state’s governor would be required to submit the electors, which are sent under a formal process to Congress and opened at the rostrum during the joint session. Congress could not accept a slate submitted by a different official, so there could not be competing lists of electors from one state.
 The legislation would revise language in current law that wasn’t used during the 2020 election, but which lawmakers think could be abused. Presently, state legislatures can override the popular vote in their states by calling a “failed election,” but the term is not defined under the law. The bill says a state could only move its presidential election day if there are “extraordinary and catastrophic” events, such as natural disasters, that necessitate that.
There’s an interesting take on the bipartisan Senate agreement of a $1.7tn government spending bill from Politicus USA, which says the deal has taken away an opportunity for House 
 to hold Joe Biden hostage.
 suggests the House GOP was keen to provoke a crisis over the spending bill, hoping for a government shutdown that would allow them to flex their economic muscles when they take the majority next month.
But with a deal now, which would likely pass the House in the waning days of the Democratic majority, their next chance to cause mischief over spending will be at least a year away, Politicus says.
And that, it asserts, “means that any drama caused by House Republicans will spill into the 2024 election year”.
“House Republicans were targeting 2023 because they wanted to make a big publicity-getting splash with their new majority while having enough time for any potential government shutdown backlash to blow over,” Politicus reporter 
“If House Republicans try to shut down the government next year at this time, they will be doing so with the ticking 2024 election clock hanging over their heads.”
There appears to have been a falling out between Marjorie Taylor-Greene and Lauren Boebert, two of the most obstreperous Republican extremists in the 
Once seemingly joined at the hip in their devotion to 
 and the former president’s Maga (make America great again) movement, their split seems to be over House minority leader 
’s quest for the Speaker’s gavel, which Greene has been warming to, and Boebert remains steadfastly against.
 by Georgia congresswoman Greene on Monday accused Boebert, of Colorado, of engaging in petty feuding, while also taking a dig at her narrow margin of re-election last month, 
I’ve supported and donated to Lauren Boebert. President Trump has supported and donated to Lauren Boebert. Kevin McCarthy has supported and donated to Lauren Boebert. She just barely came through by 500 votes.
“I’ve supported and donated to Lauren Boebert. President Trump has supported and donated to Lauren Boebert. Kevin McCarthy has supported and donated to Lauren Boebert. She just barely came through by 500 votes,” Greene wrote.
“She gladly takes our $$$ but when she’s been asked: Lauren refuses to endorse President Trump, she refuses to support Kevin McCarthy, and she childishly threw me under the bus for a cheap sound bite.”
Greene’s ire was stoked by a video showing Boebert with Turning Point founder 
 at its AmericaFest event, according to the article.
Lauren Boebert (left) and Marjorie Taylor-Greene in happier times, hollering during Joe Biden’s State of the Union address to Congress in March.
Kirk asked Boebert and another “Never Kevin” antagonist 
, the Florida congressman, what they thought of Greene’s endorsement of McCarthy.
Gaetz said he wasn’t a fan, while Boebert’s answer was directed at Greene: “I’ve been aligned with Marjorie and accused of believing a lot of the things that she believes in,” she said.
“I don’t believe in this, just like I don’t believe in Russian space lasers, Jewish space lasers and all of this.”
In 2021, Greene infamously declared a belief that space lasers controlled by Jewish politicians were 
So far, Boebert hasn’t responded to Green’s Twitter attack.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
