Rishi Sunak has abandoned Tory pledge on workers’ rights, says former jobs tsar | Business | The Guardian
Matthew Taylor says PM has delayed putting in place many of measures from 2019 manifesto
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Rishi Sunak visits a construction site in April 2021. His government is planning to block public sector strikes. 
Rishi Sunak visits a construction site in April 2021. His government is planning to block public sector strikes. 
 This article is more than 
Rishi Sunak has abandoned Tory pledge on workers’ rights, says former jobs tsar
This article is more than 4 months old
Matthew Taylor says PM has delayed putting in place many of measures from 2019 manifesto
UK politics live – latest news updates
Tue 10 Jan 2023 09.45 GMT
Last modified on Wed 11 Jan 2023 10.57 GMT
The Conservatives’ former employment tsar has accused Rishi Sunak of abandoning the party’s commitment to improving workers’ rights after the business minister said many of the policies in the 2019 manifesto would not be implemented imminently.
 to conduct a wide-ranging review of Britain’s employment laws, said the government had delayed putting in place many of the measures he recommended in 2017.
He was commenting after Kevin Hollinrake, the business minister, said in a series of written answers that the government had no immediate plans to implement several of the policy proposals that stemmed from that review. Meanwhile, the government is about to unveil its 
 that some worry could undermine employment protections further.
Ministers to unveil anti-strike laws as disputes continue to paralyse UK
Taylor told the Guardian: “There comes a point when repeated delay starts to feel like an abandonment of an agenda. That is a great pity because, at a time when industrial relations are at the forefront, the challenge of improving the quality of work is, if anything, even more urgent than when I wrote my report.”
Taylor, who previously worked as head of the No 10 policy unit under Tony Blair, was recruited by May in October 2016 to lead a review of modern employment. His appointment was seen as a coup for the Conservatives, and a key plank in the party’s attempts to win over economically insecure Labour voters.
May spoke at the launch of the report in 2017, 
: “The issues it confronts go right to the heart of the government’s agenda and right to the heart of our values as a people.”
Many of Taylor’s policy recommendations were included in the party’s 
, but have barely been mentioned since. They included making it easier for men to take paternity leave, allowing workers to request more predictable contracts and creating a single regulator to enforce employment law.
In recent weeks, Angela Rayner, Labour’s deputy leader, has tabled a series of parliamentary questions asking about the status of each of these pledges.
In response, Hollinrake said the government 
 to encourage more predictable contracts only “if parliamentary time allows”. He 
 whether the government still intended to update its guidance on unpaid internships, which it first promised to do in 2018. And he said the government was consulting on or analysing a range of other issues, including 
Asked whether the government still intended to create a single employment regulator 
: “Timing will be dependent on the legislative timetable.”
Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Ministers are preparing to publish details of legislation 
designed to reduce the impact of strikes
 by forcing public services to provide guaranteed minimum levels of service.
Labour will oppose that bill, and Rayner said Hollinrake’s answers were further evidence that employment rights were being undermined.
“For all the Conservatives’ claims that they would make Britain the best place in the world to work, they’ve junked their commitments to ensure stable employment and prevent exploitation,” she said.
Scottish police officers challenge ‘clean-shaven’ policy at tribunal
Workplace accidents increasingly ignored by UK safety regulator
UK’s rogue boss name and shame register still blank after four years
Calls for stricter UK oversight of workplace AI amid fears for staff rights
More than 90% of hand carwashes in UK employing workers illegally, study finds
Zero-hours contracts among over-50s hit highest level recorded
Minister backs curbing right to strike of more public sector workers in UK
Working in a heatwave: your rights in the UK and how to prepare
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
