Top lawyer shot dead by colleague at Pakistan high court, say police | Pakistan | The Guardian
Abdul Latif Afridi was killed by a junior lawyer in Peshawar in what is believed to be a grudge attack
The Guardian - Back to home
Police officers examine the crime scene after the shooting incident on the premises of the Peshawar high court.
Police officers examine the crime scene after the shooting incident on the premises of the Peshawar high court.
 This article is more than 
Top lawyer shot dead by colleague at Pakistan high court, say police
This article is more than 4 months old
Abdul Latif Afridi was killed by a junior lawyer in Peshawar in what is believed to be a grudge attack
Mon 16 Jan 2023 16.30 GMT
First published on Mon 16 Jan 2023 12.00 GMT
A top lawyer has been murdered at a 
 high court by a colleague who shot him six times while dressed in full judicial robes, according to police and a witness.
Abdul Latif Afridi, former president of the Supreme Court Bar Association of Pakistan, was lounging with co-workers in a break room at Peshawar high court when he was killed in an apparent grudge attack.
“The killer, a junior lawyer who was wearing his gown, opened fire at close range and then handed himself over to the police,” Ijaz Khan, a senior police official in Peshawar, said.
The gunman fired six shots at 79-year-old Afridi’s chest from less than a foot away, the witness and legal assistant, Muhammad Rizwan, said.
According to Rizwan, as the gunman surrendered to police, he said: “Don’t shoot, I had a feud with him and I have taken my revenge.”
Afridi, who also served in the national assembly in the 1990s, was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital, police said.
The prime minister, Shehbaz Sharif, described Afridi in a statement as “a seasoned jurist and a brave politician who was known for his righteousness”.
Peshawar is the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, a rugged north-western province bordering Afghanistan and populated by tribal groups often feuding over land and honour.
Police said there was a case pending against Afrid alleging his involvement in the murder of the father of the man arrested for gunning him down on Monday afternoon.
Adnan Khan Afridi, the man in police custody, is distantly related to the dead lawyer.
Although a heavy police contingent is deployed at the Peshawar court, lawyers are not body searched on entry. The security arrangements have previously been questioned, especially after a US national of Pakistani origin who was on trial on blasphemy charges was 
fatally shot by a teenage boy
 inside a courtroom in 2020.
Imran Khan alleges ‘reign of terror’ as supporters face trial in military courts
Imran Khan and Lahore police remain in tense standoff
Imran Khan granted bail in more cases relating to corruption charges
Imran Khan accuses Pakistan’s military of ordering his arrest
‘Pakistan’s democracy hangs by a thread,’ says Imran Khan on return home after arrest
Imran Khan given bail in corruption case and assurance he will not be rearrested
Pakistan supreme court rules arrest of Imran Khan was illegal 
Former PM Imran Khan appears before judge amid uproar in Pakistan
How Imran Khan became the man who divided Pakistan
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
