The film quiz of the year! What was Timothée Chalamet’s secret – and why did Tom Hanks disappoint his fans? | G2 quiz of 2022 | The Guardian
From award-winning performances to politics and controversial awards shows, how closely were you watching the movie business this year?
The Guardian - Back to home
 Composite: Guardian Design; Stephane Cardinale/Corbis; Guglielmo Mangiapane/Reuters; Joel Saget/AFP; Hanna Lassen/Getty Images
 Composite: Guardian Design; Stephane Cardinale/Corbis; Guglielmo Mangiapane/Reuters; Joel Saget/AFP; Hanna Lassen/Getty Images
The film quiz of the year! What was Timothée Chalamet’s secret – and why did Tom Hanks disappoint his fans?
From award-winning performances to politics and controversial awards shows, how closely were you watching the movie business this year?
Wed 21 Dec 2022 08.00 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.39 GMT
After the Capitol riots of 6 January, which British film-maker was subpoenaed to testify to the House select committee, because he was embedded with the Proud Boys?
In order to acknowledge the disgrace that was the Golden Globe awards this year, largely due to diversity failure, the January ceremony was …
… marked by a savage on stage Ricky Gervais monologue about its failings
… presented by people with brown paper bags over their heads
… conducted entirely in morse code
In March, the entire film world united in sadness on hearing that Bruce Willis was retiring from acting due to an aphasia diagnosis. Which of these films released in 2022 did he star in?
In April, which film-maker described Vladimir Putin – whom he had interviewed in 2015 – in these terms: “The Putin I knew was rational, calm, always acting in the best interest of the Russian people, a true son of Russia, a patriot, which does not imply a nationalist”?
In August, the Riverdance star Michael Flatley shocked the world with a bizarre film that he had bankrolled as a star acting vehicle for himself. Flatley played …
A secret agent with a luxury hotel resort
A deep-sea diver with a degree in media studies
This summer, Tom Hanks surprised and disappointed his fans with a film in which he spoke with a dodgy Dutch accent. He played …
 Which iconic movie franchise had its 60th anniversary this autumn?
 In this year’s hit film Bones and All, Timothée Chalamet plays a character who is a secret …?
This autumn’s US hit Tár, starring Cate Blanchett, is so realistic that many on Twitter thought it was about an actual person. Cate plays …
… an eponymous scouse comedian in a double-act with someone called Buck, jointly paying tribute to a legendary Liverpool figure
… a lonely road-mender glumly spreading black bitumen on the M11
… a jolly sailor whose first name is Jack
… the principal conductor of a major German orchestra whose name is Lydia
Which national leader made an emotional address at the opening ceremony of this year’s Cannes film festival?
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
