Chuck D: ‘Bringing rap to the UK was our British invasion’ | Public Enemy | The Guardian
The founder of Public Enemy answers your questions on the future of hip-hop, police harassment and whether he has ever ridden on an ostrich
The Guardian - Back to home
Chuck D: ‘I was the right person with the right thing going on.’
Chuck D: ‘I was the right person with the right thing going on.’
Chuck D: ‘Bringing rap to the UK was our British invasion’
The founder of Public Enemy answers your questions on the future of hip-hop, police harassment and whether he has ever ridden on an ostrich
Thu 29 Dec 2022 15.00 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.37 GMT
When did you last see Terminator X and has he ever let you ride on one of 
the ostriches on his ostrich farm?
 does a conference Zoom call every two weeks, so, yeah, I still speak to him once in a while. I’ve eaten ostrich in South Africa years ago. But, no. It wasn’t an ostrich farm anyway, it was an emu farm, and it was destroyed by a hurricane in the late 90s or early 00s. This just shows you how digital news never goes away. It’s like radiation. That’s why we have to watch it with news, because they’re still saying Terminator X has his ostrich farm, and no matter how many times we refute it, this same dumb-ass question comes up. It’s no one’s fault: it just shows how far we’ve got [to go] to get the space junk out of orbit, bro.
The music you made in the 80s still sounds 
vital and fresh, like it was made yesterday. Of today’s hip-hop artists, who do you think will still be talked about in 35 years, and what current artists inspire you? 
There’s so many, it’s hard to choose. I play a lot of these artists on my radio show on 
– who’s also a doctor – to name a few. One of my reasons for doing the 
Fight the Power documentary for the BBC
 is to let people know the world of hip-hop is as deep as jazz. I think the future of hip-hop and rap is Africa, with artists such as 
. In fact, women play a large part in hip-hop worldwide. They’re not taking any slack, either; they’re coming hard: at least 33% of the worldwide hip-hop output is from women, and that’s great.
 fans, and have used songs 
 as a rhythmic basis for their own material. Are you surprised how influential hip-hop has been to alt-rock bands? 
‘When we came to the UK, we paid our dues, but it was a two-way street’ … Public Enemy performing at Hammersmith Odeon, London, in 1987.
What was it like first performing in the UK all those years ago, seeing a sea of white faces staring back at you? 
If you go to a country that’s predominantly top-to-the-bottom white, that’s what you’re going to see. If I was in Nigeria, it would have been all Black faces. The UK was somewhere we relished because we knew words would be written about us, what we thought and where we had come from.
We went head-to-head as adults and hit the issues face to face. I think, at the time, a lot of kids listened to music in their adolescent spaces and the journalists threw their candy back at them. Except we weren’t candy – we were deep coffee, you know what I mean? The caffeine was the rap and the sugar was the motherfucking hip-hop. When we came to the UK, we paid our dues, but it was a two-way street. We wanted to stake the UK because we knew it was different from the US as far as freedom went. The English language had taken over the world, so we thought: why not plug hip-hop into it? The British had beaten the English language into so many cultures; bringing rap music back to the UK was our British invasion.
How we made Public Enemy’s Fight the Power
Black experience in the US remains so difficult, does hip-hop engage with politics so fleetingly? Only a handful of artists have taken up your baton in almost 40 years. 
Because the revolution can’t be sold. It can’t be marketed the way other music is marketed; it has to be given to the people. We had the blessing of right age, right place, right time. I was the right person with the right thing going on: Black music in New York. But it’s one thing to have coincidence and happenstance; you’ve also got to make it work. For me, hoping and praying was never enough. In the great words of Q-Tip: “To make something happen, let’s make something happen.”
Do you still have the same fire for political activism as you did in your 20s? Your words radicalised me as a young man. Or is it now just school runs and paying the bills? 
Very few things about a human being should be the same over 35, 40 years. When I was 27, the fire was different, but the release was different. Now I’m 62. Right now, we’re talking over Zoom, but we don’t need the screen between us; we can grasp on to the words. Today’s generations are different, so having the same fire as other human beings makes no sense. You adapt your fire, you control the temperature, you’ve got to adapt your energy. When you’re sixtysomething years old, you’ve got to manage everything: energy, space and time.
Your voice is one of the most authoritative in music. Which historical speech would you most like to recreate? 
I’ve Been to the Mountaintop by Dr Martin Luther King Jr.
Does working with Flavor Flav mean you can’t use the excuse: sorry, I didn’t realise what time it was? 
There were never any new batteries in his clock, so I was the one always making sure we were on time! Will there be another Public Enemy album? I’m available any time, but my desk is so full that it already takes me out of my time space of celebrating our last album, [2020’s] 
What You Gonna Do When the Grid Goes Down?
‘I was the one always making sure we were on time!’ … Chuck D and Flavor Flav performing in New York in 1988.
the Power have won the Oscar for 
No, we’re happy with it being the most important song in hip-hop.
the US become a more equal society? 
The whole world can move toward being a more equal society by bringing back the power of the United Nations. Social media and cellphones mean that cultures are all now all intertwined. People know who I am through music and culture, so I’ve always followed up with a great appreciation for the difference between human beings. Governments like to split and categorise human beings, but culture and hip-hop unites human beings and throws the differences to the side.
Are you pleased how hip-hop has progressed over the years? There seems to be a lot of rubbish out there (like any genre), but does the quality tip the balance in the right direction? 
Hip-hop and rap music could always be better, but we need more curators and administrators who care about the art and the artists.
How much police harassment and FBI intimidation did Public Enemy receive in its heyday? 
I don’t know about intimidation, but, yeah, probably more than anybody in music. It’s nothing to be annoyed by. It’s what it is. The most I could do was to make songs about it. On Public Enemy’s first album, Yo! Bum Rush the Show, we said the governments are responsible. Governments plural because governments like to split up human beings, but music likes to unite people.
Charles Dickens, Charles Darwin or you: who’s the best Chuck D? 
You’re asking me? Of course I’m going to say I’m the best Chuck D! But if you ask the average person, I can understand why they would choose Darwin or Dickens. I’m just glad to be in that Jeopardy category.
 Fight the Power: How Hip-Hop Changed the World is on BBC Two and BBC iPlayer from 21 January.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
