Scotland’s gender recognition bill became a lightning rod for wider issues | Transgender | The Guardian
The SNP’s proposals including making it easier to get a gender recognition certificate polarised national politics and provoked angry debates over rights 
The Guardian - Back to home
Protesters outside the Scottish parliament on 21 December as MSPs consider amendments to the  government’s gender recognition reform bill.
Protesters outside the Scottish parliament on 21 December as MSPs consider amendments to the  government’s gender recognition reform bill.
Scotland’s gender recognition bill became a lightning rod for wider issues
The SNP’s proposals including making it easier to get a gender recognition certificate polarised national politics and provoked angry debates over rights 
Wed 21 Dec 2022 19.48 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.38 GMT
When Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, 
 gender recognition laws at a LGBTQ+ leaders’ hustings before the 2016 Holyrood elections, she could not have envisaged the escalating toxicity and political polarisation that would ultimately surround her plans, nor the personal toll it would exact.
The proposals to bring in a system of self-declaration for individuals wishing to change their legal gender has led to multiple protests outside the Holyrood parliament, booing the avowedly feminist first minister as a “destroyer of women’s rights”. It has prompted the SNP’s biggest ever backbench rebellion and brought Sturgeon head to head with another of Scotland’s best-known women, the Harry Potter author JK Rowling, who on the 
 described the gender recognition reform bill as “the single biggest rollback of women’s rights in our lifetimes”.
When Sturgeon spoke of removing the need for an intrusive medical diagnosis and streamlining the process for obtaining a gender recognition certificate (GRC), she was applauded by LGBTQ+ campaigners for recognising trans people as the experts on their own identities. Initial proposals were supported by the Scotland’s key women’s organisations including Rape Crisis and Women’s Aid.
Six years on, those organisations are accused of being beholden to government by other women’s groups such as For Women Scotland, which has crowdfunded a succession of court cases 
 on their trans-inclusive guidance and successfully galvanised concerns about what they characterise as threats to women’s rights and spaces.
The Scottish government and supporters argue that 
 is a simple administrative change that does not extend transgender rights nor clash with those of women. Sturgeon and Shona Robison, the minister pushing through the measures, have repeatedly insisted that they do not change women’s protections under the Equality Act.
Certainly the numbers affected appear small – about 30 gender recognition certificates are granted to people born or adopted in Scotland each year, and the Scottish government estimates that if the bill passes, this could increase to 250-300 applicants a year.
But the bill has become a lightning rod for far wider debates around the meaning of the word “woman”, the nature of inclusion and the security of women’s spaces, while opponents argue that the simple change significantly expands the size and nature of the cohort of applicants for a GRC, with the potential for predatory males to exploit this in order to access vulnerable women.
During the last few weeks of the bill, the language used around this point became increasingly overheated, as the UK government briefed about the risks of “gender tourism”, while the former first minister Jack McConnell warned that the new law would prove an “incentive for predatory male sex offenders to come to Scotland”.
The progress of the bill showed Holyrood at its best and its worst – there were strategic failures on the part of the SNP, not least in the loose and sometimes muddled drafting of the bill, which could have headed off many criticisms.
Some observers believe that the reduction in age from 18 to 16 – a red line for the Scottish Greens in their cooperation agreement with the SNP after last year’s Holyrood election – opened up the changes to further attack.
The progress of the bill also exposed deficiencies in scrutiny of legislation, with serious complaints about the way witnesses to the equalities committee, which oversaw the process, were selected and the lack of time to discuss amendments at all stages.
But there were also genuine efforts at 
, with MSPs of different parties bringing amendments together in attempts to build last-minute consensus.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
In terms of longer-term political consequences, transgender reform was certainly identified as a wedge issue at the last Holyrood election, but concerns about their rocky record on health and education appears to have had more impact on voters.
And it remains to be seen whether a deluge of applications follows the law coming into force – and what response comes from the UK government, which has already threatened not to recognise Scottish GRCs or even challenge them in court.
In 2016, when the Guardian interviewed trans people about the proposals, many said they were less concerned with what they saw as an onerous and fairly unnecessary bit of personal admin than with improvements in healthcare provision or better policing of hate crime.
As the bill made its final progress through Holyrood over the past month, many in the trans community have felt sorely disappointed by the attitudes on display in Scotland, although ultimately the confirmation of state support for people to live their lives as they choose, as one observer put it, stands in firm contrast to the UK government, which caused consternation earlier this year when it moved to exclude trans people from a 
Trans violent offenders banned from women’s prisons in England and Wales
Subway ad for Glasgow restaurant featuring Michelangelo’s David censored over nudity
Man admits abduction and sexual assault of schoolgirl in Scottish Borders
Transgender prison row heightens safety fears in Scotland’s LGBTQ+ community
Humza Yousaf: Scotland should not have first minister who is against equal marriage
Scottish leadership election leaves gender reform hanging in balance
BAE investigating alleged sabotage of next-generation Royal Navy warship
SNP top leaders urge overhaul of Sturgeon independence plan
SNP leadership candidates trade personal blows in televised debate
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
