Conversion practices ban will include transgender people, Donelan confirms | Transgender | The Guardian
Latest government U-turn on policy comes amid row over Scotland’s gender recognition bill
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Transgender people and their supporters marching through London during the fourth Trans Pride protest march for equality in July.
Transgender people and their supporters marching through London during the fourth Trans Pride protest march for equality in July.
 This article is more than 
Conversion practices ban will include transgender people, Donelan confirms
This article is more than 4 months old
Latest government U-turn on policy comes amid row over Scotland’s gender recognition bill
UK politics live – latest news updates
Tue 17 Jan 2023 18.00 GMT
First published on Tue 17 Jan 2023 16.39 GMT
The government’s plans for a ban on so-called conversion practices will now also include transgender people, the culture secretary has confirmed.
The policy, which has been proposed several times by successive Conservative governments since 2018 when Theresa May was prime minister, will outlaw attempts to change someone’s sexuality or gender identity in England and Wales.
Labour has criticised the government for not moving faster on tackling the issue after Boris Johnson dropped plans to ban any 
 last year, only for his government to 
 hours later after a huge backlash.
The government at the time ruled out including a ban on transgender conversion, amid concerns about parents supporting children who are questioning their gender identity, because of the “complexity of issues and need for further careful thought”.
But in a written statement on Tuesday, the culture secretary, Michelle Donelan, said: “We recognise the strength of feeling on the issue of harmful conversion practices and remain committed to protecting people from these practices and making sure they can live their lives free from the threat of harm or abuse.”
She said it was right that the issue was tackled “through a dedicated and tailored legislative approach”, adding: “The bill will protect everyone, including those targeted on the basis of their sexuality, or being transgender.”
Donelan said the draft bill, which will only ban conversion practices for over-18s “who do not consent and who are coerced or forced to undergo” the practice, would be scrutinised by MPs and peers to help ensure the legislation did not have “unintended consequences”.
The senior Tory MP Alicia Kearns, who has long campaigned on the issue, said she was glad the ban was “finally happening”.
She added: “We have a timeline, we know it’s going to be a fully inclusive ban and I am really delighted, because it is right that we end this heinous crime that allows charlatans and quacks to prey on some of the most vulnerable members of our society.”
Anneliese Dodds, the chair of the Labour party, said: “The Conservatives could have taken action years ago as they promised. Instead, they tied themselves in knots, constantly flip-flopping and delaying … the government must commit to publishing the bill and bringing in this ban immediately.”
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Blocking Scotland’s gender bill is no anti-woke crusade. But it’s not a democratic outrage either | Martin Kettle
Downing Street indicated the legislation could be passed before the next general election. “We want to do it in this parliament, that’s my understanding,” the prime minister’s official spokesman said.
“We want it to go through pre-legislative scrutiny in this parliamentary session because we think that’s important because some of the issues we know are not fully resolved. That’s the process that will get under way in the first instance.”
Conversion practices refer to any form of treatment or psychotherapy that tries to subdue someone’s sexual orientation or stop them identifying as a different gender to their sex recorded at birth. It can include talking “therapy”, prayer or, in extreme forms, exorcisms, physical violence and food deprivation.
A UK-wide survey four years ago found 5% of 108,000 people who responded to a government survey said they had been offered some form of conversion practices and 2% had undertaken them.
The LGBTQ+ charity Stonewall says conversion practices are based on an assumption that being lesbian, gay, bi or trans is a mental illness that can be “cured”, while the NHS has warned that all forms of the practice are “unethical and potentially harmful”.
The conversion practices announcement comes amid a row over Scotland’s gender recognition reform bill, which the UK government has 
taken the unprecedented decision to block
Trans pupils put school policies to test amid heated debate in England
Ministers consider rule to let single-sex schools bar transgender pupils
What would changing the Equality Act mean for trans people and single-sex spaces?
Women’s Institute will ‘continue to celebrate’ transgender women amid inclusivity row
Kemi Badenoch could rewrite law to allow trans exclusion from single-sex spaces
Anti-trans activist Posie Parker leaves New Zealand after chaotic protests 
Maths teacher accused of misgendering pupil on religious grounds
Spain passes law allowing anyone over 16 to change registered gender
Why Scotland’s gender reform bill is sparking concern over trans prisoner policies
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
