Today’s rightwing populists aim to disrupt, not to govern  | US politics | The Guardian
Readers respond to an article by Jonathan Freedland on the decline of politics on both sides of the Atlantic
The Guardian - Back to home
The sign over the office of US speaker of the House is replaced after Kevin McCarthy was finally elected after 15 rounds of voting.
The sign over the office of US speaker of the House is replaced after Kevin McCarthy was finally elected after 15 rounds of voting.
Today’s rightwing populists aim to disrupt, not to govern 
Readers respond to an article by Jonathan Freedland on the decline of politics on both sides of the Atlantic
Tue 10 Jan 2023 18.17 GMT
Last modified on Wed 11 Jan 2023 17.48 GMT
An excellent analysis by Jonathan Freedland on the problems with the far right and their inability to govern as grownups (
After Brexit and Trump, rightwing populists cling to power – but the truth is they can’t govern, 7 January
attack on the Capitol on 6 January
 2021, the elected lawmakers and the police had rolled over and given way to the mob, let them take up residence in the Capitol and become the new lawmakers. What might have played out? Would one of them (the man in the horned helmet perhaps?) have declared himself a senator/congressman and the leader of the House? Would he have proposed some new laws to his comrades in arms, or laws to help fellow American citizens live happier and better lives? 
 As ever, Jonathan Freedland critically analyses the descent of rightwing politics on both sides of the Atlantic. The deterioration, however, is not restricted to the right. In days gone by, politicians such as John Smith, Gordon Brown, Michael Heseltine and Ken Clarke sought to lead, not follow, the public. They said what they believed and tried to implement and convince. Today, politicians seem to follow rather than lead the public, following, no doubt, the latest focus groups in marginal constituencies.
Politicians such as Keir Starmer and Jeremy Hunt undoubtedly know that Britain’s interests are best served by a closer relationship with (if not membership of) the European Union. Rather than be honest about this and try to persuade their fellow citizens, they coalesce around what they believe is the popular position.
 The truth is that today’s right wing is not motivated to govern. They have been complicit in, and echo, the rightwing media message that has droned on for decades – a message straight out of the anti-democracy playbook. This is nothing new in recorded human history. “My way or burn it down” has been a consistent theme in radical fascist or fundamentalist mentality. Concern for consequence or social justice is not a guiding principle here. In fact, there is no guiding principle other than a manic five-year-old’s ambition to control the household. When that ambition inevitably leads to a bad end, they blame everyone but themselves and/or reach for a match. 
 Jonathan Freedland is right that the debacle of the 15 rounds of voting it took US 
 to elect one of their own number to preside over the House of Representatives underlined that they are a party not of political power but of disruption. Just like the Liz Truss interregnum here, however, the disruption has a purpose. It is certainly not to govern in the interests of ordinary people. Rather it is to secure political and financial benefits for their friends and allies. 
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
