 I drove ambulances in the pandemic and I’m enraged by the Tory strike response – history shows it will backfire | Rod Dacombe | The Guardian
The public knows how hard NHS staff work and at what cost to themselves. Support is with the strikers, not the government
The Guardian - Back to home
Ambulances parked outside the West Midlands Ambulance Service headquarters in Coventry, 21 December.
Ambulances parked outside the West Midlands Ambulance Service headquarters in Coventry, 21 December.
 This article is more than 
 I drove ambulances in the pandemic and I’m enraged by the Tory strike response – history shows it will backfire
This article is more than 4 months old
The public knows how hard NHS staff work and at what cost to themselves. Support is with the strikers, not the government
Wed 21 Dec 2022 15.21 GMT
Last modified on Wed 21 Dec 2022 22.36 GMT
or a time in 2020, most of us spent a few minutes every Thursday evening showing support for NHS staff by clapping or banging pans, at our front doors. The national sentiment seemed to be reflected by those in power. Boris Johnson, speaking shortly after the horrors of the Covid wave that winter, praised the “incredible work of our NHS, our GPs, our nurses, our healthcare workers of all kinds”. He continued: “
Today, many of these same people, including frontline ambulance staff and call handlers, are striking in protest at years of declining wages and worsening conditions, both for staff and patients. Some of those striking are my friends and former colleagues: through a mixture of accident and necessity, I worked alongside them during the pandemic, crewing a frontline ambulance.
The people I worked with were dedicated, caring, compassionate, and hilariously funny at times. They were also incredibly brave. I should like to see some of the critics of those currently striking take the place of the paramedic who, a head and shoulders smaller than me, walked alone into a potentially
violent patient’s home, making me wait outside until she was sure it was safe. But we should not call them heroes when they are, in fact, highly skilled professionals.
In stark contrast to Johnson’s rhetoric during the pandemic, the
government’s response has so far involved stonewalling on the question of pay and 
 for patient harm on to striking workers. This approach has been echoed and bolstered by 
 – former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie described striking ambulance workers as “vile shitbags”. But, as I know well from my current academic work, these positions are not only out of step with public sentiment (a 
suggested almost two-thirds of Britons support the striking ambulance staff), they also ignore recent history.
 Photograph: Velar Grant/ZUMA Press Wire/Shutterstock
The last ambulance strike, in 1989, continued for several months, and caused extreme hardship for those involved. It ended because, to the surprise of the government at the time, public sentiment remained steadfastly behind frontline ambulance workers. Attempts to turn the tide of opinion against 
 staff failed miserably, and it seems remarkable that the current government looks set to repeat the same mistakes at a time when its own position is so electorally perilous.
The public can see through lazy generalisations about heroism, and how they distract from the underlying issues faced by healthcare workers. The current wave of strikes has served to highlight the near-collapse of healthcare across the UK and the appalling conditions faced by frontline crews. Demand currently far outstrips supply. The “call stack”, the number of waiting 999 calls that need a response, is regularly more than 100 deep in many areas of the country. This means more than 100 people waiting for an ambulance. At best, many will be waiting hours.
All this means that crews often work a 12-hour shift without stopping, except for a half-hour break (at my station, confusingly called “lunch” regardless of the time), which it isn’t always possible to take. Worse, staff work under the constant threat of physical harm, with 
11,749 ambulance staff abused or attacked
 last year. I found this had become so commonplace by 2020 that I made a point of asking every clinician I worked with if they had been physically assaulted at some point in their careers. They all had.
It is not hard to imagine the effect of this environment on those working on the frontline. The “emotional labour” involved in routinely dealing with stressful and highly charged work, and the subsequent effects on staff wellbeing 
. Morale is low and retention problems are 
crippling ambulance services across the country
. This strike, then, is as much for patients as it is for staff.
Ultimately, the government’s approach underlines the emptiness of using the rhetoric of heroism at times of national crisis without investing in frontline services, and it is a battle that it is unlikely to win. The public, at least, have not forgotten that their safety and wellbeing relies in part on the work of a small group of dedicated professionals who are willing to face things that most of us don’t like to even think about.
Rod Dacombe is director of the Centre for British Politics and Government at King’s College London. During the pandemic he worked on the NHS frontlines
England’s ambulance crews spend 1.8m hours a year on mental health callouts
‘What the hell is going on when you can’t get an ambulance?’
More than 500 deaths in England last year after long ambulance wait
Keir Starmer says NHS is ‘broken’ and in jeopardy under Tories
Unite union calls off ambulance worker strikes in England
Ambulance call handlers in England tell of anguish over death risk to patients
Two North East ambulance service directors quit amid damning report
‘It was terrifying’: GP tells of dash to A&amp;E amid ambulance delays
Unison urges Jeremy Hunt to release new money to end NHS strikes
NHS leaders voice alarm as 10 more ambulance strikes planned
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
