Sir Laurie Magnus named Rishi Sunak’s new ethics adviser | Rishi Sunak | The Guardian
Prime minister appoints Historic England chair to role that had been vacant for six months
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Sir Laurie Magnus, who has been appointed as Rishi Sunak's independent adviser on ministers' interests.
Sir Laurie Magnus, who has been appointed as Rishi Sunak's independent adviser on ministers' interests.
 This article is more than 
Sir Laurie Magnus named Rishi Sunak’s new ethics adviser
This article is more than 4 months old
Prime minister appoints Historic England chair to role that had been vacant for six months
UK politics live – latest news updates
Thu 22 Dec 2022 17.49 GMT
First published on Thu 22 Dec 2022 14.27 GMT
Rishi Sunak has appointed a former banker and quango head to be his ethics adviser after a six-month delay in filling the post, but will not allow the new incumbent to launch his own investigations into potential wrongdoing.
Sir Laurie Magnus, who spent his career in corporate finance and who chairs Historic England, will take over from Christopher Geidt, 
 as the independent adviser on ministers’ interests under Boris Johnson in June.
Lord Geidt, who stepped down over proposals to break international law on trade policy but was known to be unhappy about Johnson’s role in lockdown-breaching No 10 parties, was the second consecutive holder of the post to quit.
In November 2020, Sir Alex Allan 
 after Johnson refused to sack Priti Patel as home secretary despite a formal investigation finding evidence that she had bullied civil servants.
On entering Downing Street, Sunak pledged to put integrity and accountability at the centre of his government but 
 for Geidt, with several earlier candidates understood to have turned down the role.
One issue had been that Sunak did not plan to allow the adviser to launch their own investigations into ministers but would wait for No 10 to request this. Geidt was known to be dissatisfied with this, and had indicated he expected his powers to be expanded.
But in a letter to Magnus, released by Downing Street, Sunak wrote: “I propose to retain the existing terms of reference, as agreed with your predecessor.”
This would mean that Magnus would be unable to begin his own inquiries into the conduct of Dominic Raab, the justice secretary and deputy prime minister, over a 
, or about Suella Braverman, the home secretary, over claims of leaking 
 over asylum. Both deny any wrongdoing.
Dave Penman, head of the FDA union, which represents senior civil servants, said: “The prime minister retains a veto over investigations into his ministers’ conduct and is the sole arbiter of the ministerial code, including any sanctions. How will this give civil servants the confidence to come forward?
“Since Sunak became prime minister one 
 amid allegations of bullying and another is currently subject to eight separate complaints. Yet there is not even an attempt to reform the broken system for dealing with ministerial conduct.”
Angela Rayner, Labour’s deputy leader, said Sunak had “chosen to preserve the rotten ethics regime he inherited”, adding: “This weak prime minister is failing to deliver the integrity he promised and instead has installed yet another toothless watchdog.”
Magnus is not known to have formal links to the Conservative party, although his elevation to the Historic England role came amid a move by the David Cameron government to appoint quango heads who were seen as broadly sympathetic.
In advance of the 2005 general election, Magnus was among 67 business leaders who wrote to the Financial Times saying that Michael Howard’s 
 had a better economic plan and would reduce “burdensome regulation”.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
House of Commons records show that 
Magnus gave the Conservative MP Nick Boles £3,000
 in December 2017 to support researching and writing a book. Three other donors also contributed to the costs of the book, giving a further £16,500.
In his letter to Sunak, Magnus, who was educated at Eton and Oxford before chairing the corporate investment advisers Lexicon Partners, made no mention of the role’s powers. Saying he would “endeavour to discharge the important responsibilities of the role with fairness and integrity”, Magnus promised to complete the often delayed annual report into ministers’ interests, produced by his office, by May 2023, and to compile a list of interests “well before” then.
 another investment advisory firm, Evercore Partners. Since 2013 he has 
, formerly known as English Heritage.
Amid the debate over memorials and statues connected to the slave trade following the Black Lives Matters movement and the toppling of the Bristol statue to the slave trader Edward Colston, 
 a policy of keeping such pieces in place but adding “counter-memorials” alongside them.
In his letter appointing Magnus, Sunak wrote: “I have sought to identify potential candidates who can demonstrate the critical qualities of integrity and independence; relevant expertise and experience; and an ability to command the trust and confidence of ministers.
“Having discussed the role with you, I am confident that you not only demonstrate these qualities but that you will serve in the role with distinction, in the best traditions of public service.”
Rishi Sunak: Britain has moved on from judging people for being rich
Rishi Sunak’s family fortune falls by £200m in Sunday Times rich list
Rishi Sunak ‘ranks racy Jilly Cooper novel among his favourite books’
Downing Street downtime: how prime ministers like to relax
Tory MPs voice unease over Sunak’s flying pharmacy visit 
Pharmacist at former Sunak family chemist wary of PM’s health plans
Sunak uses helicopter for trip that would have taken just over an hour by train
What do the disastrous Tory local election results mean for Rishi Sunak?
David Starkey says PM uninterested in coronation as he is ‘not grounded in our culture’
Rishi Sunak sends MPs away with a flurry of fibs at PMQs
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
