Westminster plays ‘high-stakes game’ over gender recognition bill | Scotland | The Guardian
Threatening to use UK powers to block law is a gift to independence campaigners but weaponises trans issue in run-up to general election
The Guardian - Back to home
Hecklers interrupt passing of Scottish gender recognition bill – video 
Westminster plays ‘high-stakes game’ over gender recognition bill
Threatening to use UK powers to block law is a gift to independence campaigners but weaponises trans issue in run-up to general election
Thu 22 Dec 2022 19.34 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.39 GMT
Just moments after the Scottish parliament voted to pass the SNP’s gender recognition legislation on Thursday, the debate was disrupted by protesters shouting from the public gallery, underlining just how controversial the new law is.
Yet Nicola Sturgeon, who has fought for six years to get the measures on to the statute book, regards it as a big win. But within minutes the UK government had announced it was 
, throwing the Scottish government’s plans into disarray and threatening a constitutional crisis.
Behind the scenes at Westminster, government sources were at pains to stress they were not actively intending to go nuclear and that every bill passed by the Scottish parliament spends the next 28 days being assessed by law officers. They consider what tweaks, if any, need to be made to UK legislation to iron out any cross-border anomalies.
The technical device used is section 104 of the 
 Act. But the power threatened by the Scottish secretary, Alister Jack, after the bill was passed – a section 35 order that would prevent the bill being sent for royal assent – has never been used.
It is there for when new powers are felt to impact adversely on legislation reserved to Westminster. The legislation at issue here is the UK Equality Act.
One example given by Whitehall insiders of the potential harm caused is that if a male Scottish prisoner in an English jail received a gender-recognition certificate three months after self-identifying as a woman, the prison could be in breach of the Equality Act for refusing the request to transfer to a women’s jail.
Another is that of schools or colleges refusing to recognise Scottish-born 16- and 17-year-old pupils with certificates when requesting to use single-sex facilities. Employers who refuse to recognise the certificates could also be sued.
If Rishi Sunak’s government triggers section 35, Scotland’s first minister will almost certainly seek judicial review. A court battle over what would be presented by the SNP as Westminster denying Holyrood its democratic right to make its own laws – hot on the heels of the supreme court verdict on another referendum – could be a gift to the independence cause.
UK government insiders say there is a risk to their actions, but insist they are just following the Scotland Act rulebook. Yet some critics are unconvinced by their motivation, saying that there are political benefits to the Tories of keeping the transgender rights plans in the headlines for weeks.
They believe that Sturgeon underestimated the degree of opposition to her bill. A YouGov poll for the Times last week claimed that two-thirds of Scots are opposed to its key features. Some Tories believe they can boost their vote in Scotland at the next election if they reduce politics, once again, to culture wars.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
The Guardian has been told that a former adviser to Boris Johnson is behind the UK government’s response to the new gender reform laws. Dougie Smith, who coordinated the “war on woke” pursued by the Johnson administration, has been tasked with “weaponising” the issue of trans rights before the next election.
One cabinet source claims the long-term Tory fixer, who is close to Sunak, is acting as “puppet master” to the equalities minister, Kemi Badenoch, who is fronting the government’s strategy. He was said to be behind Johnson’s strategy to stir divisions on racial, heritage and cultural issues to ally the Tories with working-class voters in “red wall” seats.
Some at Westminster believe that the UK government is just posturing and section 35 will not, in fact, be triggered. But one insider says: “It’s a high-stakes game to play. If they do, then the government simply hands over the biggest justification for Scottish independence the SNP will ever get.”
Trans violent offenders banned from women’s prisons in England and Wales
Transgender prison row heightens safety fears in Scotland’s LGBTQ+ community
Scottish leadership election leaves gender reform hanging in balance
Trans prisoners in Scotland to be first sent to jails matching their birth gender
SNP opposition to gender recognition reform should be ‘respected’, Commons leader says
Scottish ministers say they did not know trans rapist was put in women’s jail
Scotland says transgender prisoners with violent pasts will not go to women’s jails
Why Scotland’s gender reform bill is sparking concern over trans prisoner policies
Trans woman found guilty of rape moved to men’s prison
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
