Morrissey says Miley Cyrus album exit was nothing to do with his politics  | Morrissey | The Guardian
American withdrew after recording guest vocals on the Mancunian’s yet-to-be-released new record
The Guardian - Back to home
Morrissey and Miley Cyrus. She had recorded guest vocals for a song on Bonfire of Teenagers.
Morrissey and Miley Cyrus. She had recorded guest vocals for a song on Bonfire of Teenagers.
 This article is more than 
Morrissey says Miley Cyrus album exit was nothing to do with his politics 
This article is more than 4 months old
American withdrew after recording guest vocals on the Mancunian’s yet-to-be-released new record
Sat 7 Jan 2023 00.25 GMT
Last modified on Mon 16 Jan 2023 16.09 GMT
Morrissey has spoken out after 
 dropped out of a guest spot on his upcoming album, denying the singer had done so over his political stances, which he said are “most certainly not far right”.
 posted on Thursday, the former frontman of the Smiths also attacked “cancel vultures” and alleged the existence of a campaign to “put [him] out of circulation”.
 Cyrus had asked to be removed from his unreleased album Bonfire of Teenagers, which was expected to feature her backing vocals on a song titled I Am Veronica.
Cyrus’s decision, he said, came when he parted ways with label Capitol Records.
In a new post shared to his website on Friday night, 
 said Cyrus, 30, decided against appearing on the album due to a private conflict unrelated to him.
“In truth, Miley has backed off for reasons unconnected to me, having had a major clash with a key figure in ‘the circle’,” he wrote, adding he would not divulge details about the “private fight”.
“Miley knew everything about me when she arrived to sing ‘I Am Veronica’ almost two years ago; she walked into the studio already singing the song,” the statement said.
“She volunteered. I did not ask her to get involved. Her professionalism was astounding, her vocals a joy to behold. Every minute that I spent with Miley was loving and funny.”
On politics, the singer denied he was far-right – a charge that arose after 
 on race and racism, as well as his support for now defunct far-right anti-Islam party For Britain.
There is a fight that never goes out: Morrissey accuses Johnny Marr of using him as clickbait
“Although the left changed and deserted me many years ago, I am most certainly not far-right, and I have not ever met anyone who claims to be far-right,” he wrote.
“My politics are straightforward: I recognize realities. I am therefore sorry to report to some of you that I am absolutely not far-right.”
Morrissey criticised those he deemed to be “cancel vultures” who “only attack those of whom they are most jealous”.
He also mentioned four unnamed men in Britain with “prominent positions on social media” who he said initially led a campaign to “destroy my career”.
“At some point, each one of them had hopes of a candle-lit friendship with me, and this did not happen,” he said. “Their rage for attention then took a different turn. They want some form of Wikipedia mention as well as a future personal index reference in ‘Who Killed Morrissey?’”
As it stands, the future of Bonfire of Teenagers appears uncertain. A 
 from Morrissey said it was no longer scheduled for a February 2023 release, and “[its] fate is exclusively in the hands of Capitol Records (Los Angeles.)”
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
