The Guardian Footballer of the Year Virginia Torrecilla: ‘When people say I’m a fighter, it’s lovely’ | Guardian Footballer of the Year | The Guardian
The Atlético Madrid midfielder is back playing after cancer and being ‘sunk’ by an accident that left her mother in a wheelchair
The Guardian - Back to home
Atlético Madrid's Virginia Torrecilla at her home in Madrid this month with her Guardian Footballer of the Year trophy.
Atlético Madrid's Virginia Torrecilla at her home in Madrid this month with her Guardian Footballer of the Year trophy.
The Guardian Footballer of the Year Virginia Torrecilla: ‘When people say I’m a fighter, it’s lovely’
The Atlético Madrid midfielder is back playing after cancer and being ‘sunk’ by an accident that left her mother in a wheelchair
Mon 2 Jan 2023 08.00 GMT
Last modified on Wed 1 Feb 2023 13.46 GMT
 is an award given to a player who has done something remarkable, whether by overcoming adversity, helping others or setting a sporting example by acting with exceptional honesty.
Virginia Torrecilla had been through 13 months of treatment, 30 rounds of radiotherapy, 15 cycles of chemo, hair slowly returning a year after the removal of a brain tumour, and was “starting to feel like I could go on at last” when she was involved in the car crash that left her in a deep depression and put her mother, Mari, in a wheelchair. “You come out of one tunnel, you’re getting there and you go into another, even worse,” she says. “I couldn’t understand why this was happening when I’ve never been a bad person.”
It was June 2021, a Thursday. Mari, who had moved to Madrid to look after her daughter, was due to depart on the Monday, the worst days finally behind them. There was a jam, traffic slowing to a halt, and Torrecilla heard the beeps just before a white van hit the back of her car. Mari’s head was bleeding and she couldn’t feel her legs. Cut free by the fire brigade, she was taken into intensive care, had surgery the following morning and was paralysed from the waist down.
“I was sunk,” the Atlético Madrid midfielder says, and then her voice breaks and the tears come. “I would go through cancer 15 times more. 
, eh. I’d do 30 chemos for my mum to walk again. I promise, I promise. With my whole heart. Three years in chemo. 
 I don’t care. If she could only be back on her feet again. I blamed myself. She says I can’t think like that. She’s my mum, she’ll always defend me. But, no, no. What my mum went through …”
Virginia Torrecilla has been through 13 months of treatment with 30 rounds of radiotherapy.
Torrecilla, the Guardian’s Footballer of the Year for 2022, swallows hard. Eventually she says: “Nothing compares to that.”
“When the accident happened, I wanted to ditch it all,” she continues, looking across the pitch at Atlético’s training ground, every word an effort. “I said to the club: ‘I don’t want to go on.’ I told my parents I wanted to give up, go home. They said: ‘Don’t even think it.’”
Six months later, in January 2022, 683 days since her last match, almost two years after being told she wouldn’t play again, Torrecilla returned to the field in the Spanish Super Cup final. “When people say I’m a fighter, an example, it’s lovely,” she says. “But the pain I felt: it’s not the cancer in my body, it’s everything I overcame psychologically, everything I went through with my mum. That’s hard, honestly. Very, very, very hard.” It still is. Her story is inspiring but it is not, she insists, complete.
The diagnosis that changed her life, that changed her, came in May 2020 during lockdown. “My neck hurt, the pain going to my head. I couldn’t sleep. On the treadmill I felt dizzy and sick. I thought: ‘Something’s wrong,’” Torrecilla recalls. “They do a CT scan and tell me I have a tumour but it’s benign. They can take it out, no problem. In four, five months I’ll be training again.
The Guardian Footballer of the Year: the previous winners
The Footballer of the Year award is given to a player who has done something truly remarkable, whether by overcoming adversity, helping others or setting a sporting example by acting with exceptional honesty.
“I come out of the operation, everything’s gone well. I do a video saying I had a tumour, but it’s OK. A week later, I go back to treat the wound and they tell me it’s malignant.” Torrecilla gulps, sniffs. “I didn’t know what radiotherapy was. I knew cancer kills people, chemo hits you hard. I was crying. ‘Mum, what if I can’t cope with the chemo? What if I die?’”
Through the tears, there’s a smile. “She says: ‘Nah, chemo’s nothing. Relax, they stick a line in, that’s it.’ She was trying to ‘con’ me, so I didn’t feel so bad, didn’t suffer so much. She would suffer for me. The radiotherapy was directly on the tumour site; the chemo, 
, that was long. The first few cycles were OK, the last five horrible. I was so tired. My defences were low, they wouldn’t let me out. If I got Covid I could die.”
Torrecilla lost 16kgs and her hair; she was weak, vulnerable. “My nephew had just been born but I didn’t have the strength to lift him and I couldn’t hold him in case he gave me something, the poor thing,” she says. “I had Atlético’s support: if not, I’m not here. People couldn’t get into hospitals. My uncle died after five months because he couldn’t get treated. He passed away with prostate cancer.” There’s a pause. “No funeral,” Torrecilla adds.
“It all comes together. I get cancer, beat it. The crash. My mum’s brother dies. She’s destroyed, the whole family is. One thing after another and you can’t overcome it all. It’s hard to take. My mum was in intensive care for two weeks, which was horrible. Then six months in hospital in Toledo, for rehabilitation, preparing her for life in the chair. I had always been positive but I became a very negative person. I blamed myself.”
But you got hit from behind. One of the Guardia Civil officers handling the case even reassured you that it hadn’t been your fault. “Yeah, but I was driving,” Torrecilla repeats. “And my mum had come to Madrid for me, to look after me. I’ve never forgiven myself. I finished the chemo, I was very weak, very, very weak, I weighed 40 kilos, I couldn’t eat. She stayed to get back on my feet. And when I start to feel I’m OK again, like I can go on …”
Virginia Torrecilla has returned to football despite being told she would not play again.
Torrecilla takes a deep, uneven breath. “The cancer hurt, but it’s my mum’s accident that really affected me. I couldn’t understand why life gives me a second chance then that happens. It was hard to accept. In fact, I’m still working on that. Fighting cancer, I didn’t see a psychologist: I knew what I faced. But when that happened, I didn’t know what to do, if it’s worth me being here any more. I was sunk. I went into a depression. I didn’t want to leave the house. I came to train because it was my job. I just wanted to go home, be with my family. I was so depressed. I didn’t eat, didn’t sleep. Playing was an obligation.”
In obligation lay part of salvation. “After a year fighting, I couldn’t throw in the towel. I couldn’t give up football for the sake of my parents’ emotional state. They said: ‘After everything you’ve been through, you have to demonstrate the power of human will.’ ‘This is you,’ my dad says. I did it all for them.”
Her fight, their fight, became something profound, inspiring. In January, towards the end of the Spanish Super Cup final against Barcelona, her former club, she played again. Torrecilla smiles. “‘Virginia, warm up: you’re coming on.’ That really was all they said. And I was like: ‘Erm …’”
Informative, passionate, entertaining. Sign up to our weekly round-up of women’s football now.
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Torrecilla leaps to her feet, acting out the frantic, excited scene, suddenly thrown by the simplest instruction she had waited so long for. “I got up, went off still wearing my mask and coat. I ran back to the bench, left it there, took the mask off. Shinpads. I was a mess. I was super-nervous
It was two years since I played and I could hardly remember what to do. I was so desperate to get out there, for people to see me.”
At Las Rozas, the stand rose as one, an ovation followed by chants of her name. As Torrecilla waited, the Barcelona captain, Alexia Putellas, came to embrace her. She was handed the captain’s armband. There were five minutes left, the game decided, her team defeated, but no one cared. At full time, she was given the bumps – by her opponents.
Virginia Torrecilla was thrown into the air by opponents Barcelona after her comeback in the Spanish Super Cup final.
“I wanted people to see I had overcome cancer and they could too,” she says. “It was a historic moment, an image there for ever in women’s football. I always wanted to be a role model. 
I wanted my name to be known. Unfortunately, life subjected me to something else, but that meant I became a symbol for overcoming. I was in the supermarket and this man stops me, says: ‘Virginia, look: my captain.’ He shows me his phone, a picture of me, bald, wearing the armband. I would never have imagined it, but it’s one of the nicest things. It genuinely has a value.”
Torrecilla continues, emotion raw. “I’m overcoming cancer. Our life has changed. It’s made me another person, more coherent. I see light at the end of the tunnel, better every day. A year after my mum’s accident, I’m not saying we’re 
-happy but we’re stable,” she says, wiping her eyes with the sleeve of her top. “Humans don’t realise until bad things happen. My mum’s good. She’s a fighter. And my dad, he’s the soul of the house. We’re OK, carrying on. I’m here, every day, training, enjoying it. People say: ‘It’s your moment, Virginia’ I don’t even want it to be my moment. I just want to work, fight, be with my people.”
On Torrecilla’s right thigh is a tattoo: “stop existing” it says. “Yeah,” she smiles, pointing to her left, “and ‘start living’ on this one. We exist; we have to live. I remember at 18, thinking: ‘Where will I be at 25?’ Or coming back from a World Cup at 21 and 26, a girl who had it all. You can’t imagine this. Or on New Year’s Eve, writing: ‘2020, how good you sound.’ And then look: 2020 and 2021 were horrible; 2022 came and I realised I can’t expect anything. Life brought this. I’m happy I overcame a tumour and can give a voice to those fighting. Life has made me understand things I never understood before.”
Virginia Torrecilla, pictured in October. ‘Life has made me understand things I never understood before,’ she says.
The cliche talks about football being put into perspective, but that’s only partly true, Torrecilla believes: sometimes it’s the opposite. It is what articulates your life, gives sense to it. It is your identity. “Thanks to football, doctors said I was stronger to fight. It’s what meant I left home each day. During chemo I was so weak, but I always went to our games. That gave me life. To see my friends train, play, to know my future was out there. To start with, I didn’t think it was so bad. Yes, my hair fell out. But I kept training, did things. When I started to lose weight, when I couldn’t eat, that’s where it all changes.”
The pitch remained, that appearance a target and a triumph, but not the end. Since her return, Torrecilla’s playing time has been counted in minutes rather than matches, but she still stands. “I saw my family are fighters,” she says. “I see my mum smiling. My family are so positive, they 
 we’ll get through, keep going. They pull me through. When I come from a game where I haven’t played and I call crying and say: ‘Dad, I can’t play football,’ he’s the one that says: ‘After everything you’ve done, give yourself time: it’ll happen.’
“They said to me: ‘You have to play football again so we can come and see you play.’ And it’s true: I dream of playing and …”
Virginia Torrecilla looks across the pitch from her seat in the stand. Her throat tightens, more tears appear and she says: “I dream of seeing my mum here, my dad alongside her, watching me play football after all we’ve been through. And we’re on the path now.”
In the UK and Ireland, Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123 or email 
. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 
. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is 13 11 14. Other international helplines can be found at 
Comments on this piece are premoderated to ensure discussion remains on topics raised by the writer. Please be aware there may be a short delay in comments appearing on the site.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
