Country of fear: Australia of 2002 was preoccupied with national security | Cabinet papers | The Guardian
 even before the Bali attacks, the Howard government passed sweeping anti-terrorism laws in response to 9/11
Follow our Australia news live blog for the latest updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Prime minister John Howard flanked by military top brass in 2002, a year of heightened security concerns.
 Photograph: Peter West/Commonwealth of Australia
Prime minister John Howard flanked by military top brass in 2002, a year of heightened security concerns.
 Photograph: Peter West/Commonwealth of Australia
Country of fear: Australia of 2002 was preoccupied with national security
 even before the Bali attacks, the Howard government passed sweeping anti-terrorism laws in response to 9/11
Follow our Australia news live blog for the latest updates
Sat 31 Dec 2022 18.59 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.39 GMT
ustralia’s politics were dominated by its response to international terrorism throughout 2002, a focus that intensified when the Bali bombers struck in October. Well before the devastating attack that 
 in two Kuta nightclubs, John Howard’s government was pushing through a series of anti-terrorism laws in reaction to the 11 September attacks the previous year.
The new laws delivered sweeping powers to intelligence and police forces, and Australia was preparing to join the US in Iraq.
The 2002 cabinet records, released on Sunday by the National Archives of Australia, shed light on a year when the country was in the grip of the millennium drought and Ansett finally 
. Queen Elizabeth II visited and met the governor general, Peter Hollingworth, as pressure mounted for an inquiry into his handling of child sexual abuse claims while he was head of the Anglican church (
he would resign the next year
The former senator Amanda Vanstone was then in cabinet as family and community services minister. Speaking before the release of the papers, she said while many things have changed since 2002, much remains familiar and unresolved.
“The reality is like the mother of all humblers, if you like,” she said. “Because here we are still struggling with disaster preparation. Drought, drugs, water issues, climate, defence acquisitions, housing – these are all still problematic.”
But the cabinet documents show that in 2002 those chronic issues were overshadowed by the more acute ones of terrorism, national security and the (sometimes conflated) issue of asylum seekers.
Refugees break out from the Woomera detention centre in March 2002.
There were hunger strikes in the Woomera detention camp, where some asylum seekers sewed their lips together in protest at their incarceration, and the federal government was still dealing with the fallout from 
 and struggling to find a workable policy on long-term detainees.
Vanstone said the attack on the twin towers in New York changed the global security outlook “irrevocably” and insisted Australia changed not because of the government but because of that attack.
“There were consequences”, including fear and tension among the public even before Bali, she said.
“The community was very, very concerned after September 11. And then this happens.”
The NAA’s cabinet historian, David Lee, said the most surprising thing in this year’s release was the brevity of the Bali bombing mentions.
Lee said this illustrated that not everything that is important to a nation goes to cabinet.
“There are one or two short references to the prime minister and foreign minister [Alexander Downer] addressing cabinet,” he said. “I was in Dfat [Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade] then, in the consular division, so I know how huge that undertaking was in terms of chasing the dead, the injured, [supporting] the bereaved.”
 included bans on possessing anything connected to terrorism, bans on terrorist organisations, laws against receiving or giving money to terrorist organisations, more powers for customs and airport security, and special powers for state police, including searching homes without warrants and holding suspects with charge.
One briefing recommended more support from the Australian Defence Force for anti-terrorism operations, warning of possible attacks on Australian soil.
“It would be prudent to assume that some of these attacks could be mass effect incidents, designed to create maximum social and political disruption, and could potentially include the use of weapons of mass destruction,” cabinet was told.
‘Australians were very, very apprehensive about terrorism,’ says Amanda Vanstone, a cabinet minister in 2002.
 Photograph: Peter West/Commonwealth of Australia
more than 96 new terrorism laws
Lee pointed to comments by the cabinet historian Christine Wallace, who called it a “new securitised era in Australian and world politics”.
“The ‘war on terror’ in 2001 and 2002 proved to be a significant episode in the construction by Australian governments of what journalist Brian Toohey has described as Australia’s ‘national security state’,” Lee said.
There was also criticism of the government’s acceptance of Australian David Hicks’s imprisonment at Guantanamo Bay on terrorism charges.
The attorney general, Daryl Williams, briefed cabinet that the US detention of the Adelaide man was “lawful”. Australia would let the US investigation and case unfold, while also investigating whether Hicks breached Australian law in Kosovo, Kashmir or Afghanistan, and ensuring he could not profit from his actions.
Vanstone remains unapologetic about his detention.
“Australians were very, very apprehensive about terrorism,” she said.
“I have a view that we should very much look after our citizens when they’re overseas, make sure they get appropriate treatment. But we cannot say to other countries, ‘we don’t like your law applied to our person, so we want you to give them back’.”
Vanstone called on people judging the actions of governments to try to put themselves in the cabinet room, where nuanced debates were had and making a submission could be all consuming.
“Every year in government … when you’re there, you know that you’re not there forever. And so you’ve got to grasp every minute that you can. It’s not a dress rehearsal,” she said.
The cabinet papers also reveal some of the deliberations behind the Howard government’s decision not to ratify the Kyoto protocol on carbon emissions.
In July 2002, the cabinet noted the US had rejected further participation in the process and did “not yet have a clear international strategy”.
“Without the involvement of major greenhouse gas emitters in emissions controls, there are risks for Australia in burdening its emissions-intensive trade-exposed industries with costs not faced by competitors, and at present it is not in Australia’s interest to ratify the Kyoto protocol.”
Vanstone said she still agreed with that position.
“I personally still think it’s a perfectly reasonable policy to say that we will move [on emissions] but not in a way to dramatically disadvantage ourselves for the sake of saying we’ve signed up to some statement,” she said.
The protocol was ultimately signed when the the Rudd government came to power in 2007.
Vanstone said people might be surprised by the amount of time the cabinet of 2002 gave to the environment, water quality and the Great Barrier Reef.
“I could blame the media and say, ‘oh, you’re never going to give us credit’,” she said. “Maybe we’re just lousy at selling our own story.”
She said the government’s “tough on drugs” strategy was also misunderstood and that there was a strong focus on prevention and health-related care.
“I look at that and feel guilty that we just didn’t sell it properly,” Vanstone said.
Lee said there were 468 cabinet submissions in 2002, but due to a lack of resources, only about 250 could be released each year. Several are partly redacted and others remain closed for reasons generally to do with national security.
After 1 January, anyone can apply for further releases.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
