Liz Truss Jenga-style podium cost taxpayers £4,175 | Liz Truss | The Guardian
Lectern featuring blocks of wood resembling popular game was made for ex-PM who lasted 45 days 
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Liz Truss makes her final speech at the Jenga-style podium outside 10 Downing Street in London.
Liz Truss makes her final speech at the Jenga-style podium outside 10 Downing Street in London.
 This article is more than 
Liz Truss Jenga-style podium cost taxpayers £4,175
This article is more than 4 months old
Lectern featuring blocks of wood resembling popular game was made for ex-PM who lasted 45 days
UK politics live – latest news updates
Wed 18 Jan 2023 10.33 GMT
First published on Wed 18 Jan 2023 10.32 GMT
A Jenga-style podium used by 
 in her short-lived stint as prime minister cost taxpayers £4,175, it has emerged.
The lectern was compared to a Jenga tower, from the board game that results in total collapse, as it featured pieces of wood 
 ready to topple. It was specially made for the former prime minister who lasted 45 days in No 10.
Truss had two podiums made for her, one was paid for by the Conservative party and the other paid for by the government, the Mirror has reported. Responding to a freedom of information request, Downing Street noted it had spent £4,175 on the latter.
Labour’s deputy leader, Angela Rayner, said: “Not only did Liz Truss and the 
 topple the British economy and spike mortgage repayments, they have left taxpayers picking up the tab for this personalised lectern.
“Her choice of a Jenga design should have been a warning sign of the chaos she was about to unleash. This grotesque monument to failure should serve as a reminder that the Tories should never again be trusted with the nation’s finances.”
Her successor Rishi Sunak, desperate to dissociate his government from Truss’s leadership, ditched the podium. No 10 said he is using a lectern that was “purchased under a previous administration”, which had cost £3,050.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Bank of England completes sale of £19bn emergency bond purchases after mini-budget
Truss endured a tumultuous premiership in which her 
, she lost key ministers and the confidence of the Conservative party.
Her former chief speech writer, Asa Bennett, said she took a “Spinal Tap approach” to government, demanding the volume was “turned up to 11”, before admitting it was a matter of “bitter regret” that her efforts had failed.
Since returning to the backbenches, Truss has been seen around parliament in high spirits, with members of her cabinet forming the Conservative’s latest caucus, the Conservative Growth Group, which aims to ensure Sunak does not drop Truss’s low-tax agenda. Members of the 40-strong group are understood to include the former levelling up secretary Simon Clarke and the former environment secretary Ranil Jayawardena.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
