Donations to Guardian and Observer charity appeal reach £1m | UK cost of living crisis | The Guardian
Appeal in aid of charities helping people struggling with cost of living crisis hits milestone after three weeks
Please donate to the appeal here
The Guardian - Back to home
Donations will be directed to local voluntary organisations working in some of the UK’s most deprived areas, which are providing crisis support ranging from food banks and warm rooms to debt and housing advice and mental health help.
Donations will be directed to local voluntary organisations working in some of the UK’s most deprived areas, which are providing crisis support ranging from food banks and warm rooms to debt and housing advice and mental health help.
Guardian and Observer charity appeal 2022
 This article is more than 
Donations to Guardian and Observer charity appeal reach £1m
This article is more than 4 months old
Appeal in aid of charities helping people struggling with cost of living crisis hits milestone after three weeks
Please donate to the appeal here
Thu 29 Dec 2022 12.00 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.39 GMT
The Guardian and Observer’s annual appeal, in aid of grassroots charities helping 
people struggling with the cost of living crisis
, has raised £1m, hitting the milestone on Thursday, just three weeks after the appeal launched.
The campaign, which continues into the new year, is raising money for local charities providing much-needed support to people experiencing hardship and poverty as a result of the crisis, via the appeal’s two charity partners, 
. More than 9,200 readers have so far donated a total of £1,004,000.
Donations will be directed to local voluntary organisations working in some of the UK’s most deprived areas, which are providing crisis support ranging from food banks and warm rooms to debt and housing advice and mental health help.
It is the eighth year in a row that the Guardian and Observer’s annual charity appeal has raised more than £1m. Recent appeal themes include environmental justice, Covid and young people, Windrush and refugees.
Dame Clare Moriarty, the chief executive of Citizens Advice, said: “It’s amazing to see donations to this year’s Guardian and Observer Appeal reach over £1m. We’re extremely grateful to everyone who supports us and the amount raised so far is testament to the brilliant work being done across our service.
“Our advisers are working tirelessly to support people facing unbearable situations all year round. Your generosity will make sure we can continue to help people find light at the end of the tunnel during this crisis.”
Tony Armstrong, the chief executive of Locality, also thanked Guardian and Observer readers for their generous support, saying: “Local community organisations have been providing vital frontline services through successive crises – keeping people connected, fed and safe. But they also have the imagination, understanding and courage we need to strengthen communities which have often been neglected. Your donations will help them lay the groundwork for a fairer future.
Readers continue to tell us why they gave, via a button on the online donation page.
One wrote: “I am feeling the sharp rise in the cost of living and have turned the thermostat right down but at least I could buy presents for my children and give them a good meal and healthy diet. How terrible to not have that choice. I feel for those who are having to choose between food and heating, what a terrible choice in this day and age, its shameful and says so much about our current culture and politics.”
Donations can be made online by credit card, debit card or PayPal
, or by phone on 0151 284 1126. Sadly, we are unable to accept cheques.
Guardian and Observer charity appeal 2022
‘Cheap and delicious’: it’s lentils to go on Belfast’s cost of living frontline
Guardian and Observer charity appeal passes £1.25m mark as it enters final week
‘A stepping stone back into society’: the gardening club helping recovering addicts 
‘It’s made a huge difference’: Citizens Advice comes to East End schools
Guardian and Observer readers raise £770,000 for charity appeal so far
Guardian and Observer charity telethon raises nearly £80,000
Digging in: the deprived Bristol area that’s learning to help itself 
The Guardian and Observer charity telethon 2022: call our writers to donate
The Guardian view: please give generously to our 2022 charity appeal
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
