To his fans he’s a pragmatist. To the rest of us, Rish! is an accident-in-waiting | John Crace | The Guardian
From windfarms to strikes, PM has shown himself to be a politician who isn’t actually very good at politics
The Guardian - Back to home
‘For reasons best known to himself, he chose to pick a fight with the NHS.’
 Photograph: Simon Dawson/No 10 Downing Street
‘For reasons best known to himself, he chose to pick a fight with the NHS.’
 Photograph: Simon Dawson/No 10 Downing Street
 This article is more than 
To his fans he’s a pragmatist. To the rest of us, Rish! is an accident-in-waiting
This article is more than 4 months old
From windfarms to strikes, PM has shown himself to be a politician who isn’t actually very good at politics
Mon 9 Jan 2023 19.16 GMT
Last modified on Mon 9 Jan 2023 21.48 GMT
 is a pragmatist. A politician who gets things done. A man unhindered by dogma. Who changes his mind when the facts change. A thoroughly modern leader fit for the 21st century.
The more dispassionate see a rather different prime minister. A politician who isn’t actually very good at politics. A man forced into countless unnecessary U-turns, simply because his initial response is as the patron saint of lost causes. Not so much a realist who gets things done, more an accident waiting to happen who can’t read the room.
Think of onshore wind. First he was against because he wanted the nimby, Tory vote. Then he was 
 when he belatedly realised that the vast majority of the country had no problem with onshore wind power. The same reverse ferret happened over planning permission for new housing.
Now take the nurses, paramedics and ambulance drivers. All of whom are engaged in strike action, the nurses for the first time in their history. It’s obvious to everyone that the only solution is for the 
government to stump up more money
 in this year’s pay settlement. To admit the war in Ukraine and the rate of inflation had taken everyone by surprise and that NHS staff needed a salary boost just to stay afloat. There would have been no loss of face in that. Rather, it would have looked like grownup, compassionate politics.
Battle of the new year speeches: softly, softly Starmer makes vague Sunak look defeatist  | John Crace
Only the one person unable to understand the realities was Rish!. For reasons best known to himself, he chose to pick a fight with the 
. It was just their bad luck they had agreed a wage settlement before the economy really crashed. Besides, what was the point of food banks if not to see nurses through a long winter? So he’s consistently refused to negotiate: happy to make a bad situation worse. Happy to be the political fall guy. Because in a contest for the public’s affections between NHS staff and the government, there’s only ever going to be one winner.
But for reasons best known to himself, Sunak is determined to fight to the death in a battle he is condemned to lose. His cabinet knows that, his Tory MPs know that. Only he is in the dark. Even his attempts to save face backfire.
First he hints that he may be open to a 
 for this year. Then he screws it up by insisting that any money had to be tied to greater productivity. Like, how does that work? Do nurses start working 18-hour shifts for the same money? Do ambulance drivers stay on duty round the clock? At what point does Rish! realise there are already huge numbers of vacancies in the NHS and that staff can’t work any harder? No wonder the unions, desperate to do a deal somewhere between the 19% they are asking for and the 2.5% the government are offering, are getting fed up.
All of which presents something of a problem for the health secretary, Steve Barclay. Now Barclay is never going to be the sharpest pencil in any box. In the past, this has counted in his favour. 
, no one could work out if he was being wilfully obstructive or just didn’t understand what was going on. Which, at the time, suited the government down to the ground. Because they had no idea how to make Brexit work either.
But even Barclay can see that the government’s strategy on NHS pay is a no-hoper. That the case for more money after 13 years of effective austerity is unarguable. So when he met the unions on Monday, he was virtually begging them to give him more reasons why they were a deserving case so he could go back to Sunak and the Treasury and plead on their behalf. Though in the meantime, despite a softening in government tone, he was forced to sound as if he agreed with Rish!’s hapless bargaining strategy.
Or failing that, just ignore reality completely. Shortly after 4pm, Dopey Steve got up to make a statement on the 
 and to announce new money for social care. And not once did he mention the strikes. Rather the winter crisis – you’d have thought the best time to deal with a winter crisis was not right in the middle of it – was completely unpredictable. No one could possibly have guessed that Covid infections might still remain high – the cheek, when the government had declared the pandemic over – or that flu might be a problem after several winters of lockdown.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Instead, Baldrick Barclay had a cunning plan. He was going to take over some hotels and pretend they were social care beds. And then staff the imaginary new wards with imaginary new staff. At the last count there were about 150,000 vacancies in social care. That must be 
 we’d heard so much about. And everything was going to be fine in the long run, because we would get better at treating diseases like cancer. It didn’t occur to him that we’re all going to die one day and might need hospital or care home support. Perhaps he thinks Westminster has made him an immortal.
The shadow health secretary, Wes Streeting, tried to inject some realism into proceedings. The NHS was on its knees and had been for years. The strikes were a symptom of a service overstretched and underfunded. The government was just adopting yet another sticking-plaster solution. Baldrick was outraged. He was proud of the way the 
 had undermined the NHS and the rest of the country ought to be as well. Hopefully, if all went well, more people would die at home before they were even admitted to A&amp;E. Besides, it wasn’t just the UK whose health service was under pressure.
“Er … not true,” harumphed the Conservative Edward Leigh. France had similar rates of Covid and flu yet was managing just fine. “Hell, if the French had a plan … Hell, if even Labour had a plan … then surely a Tory government could have one.” Was that too much to ask after 13 years?
Baldrick shrugged. Apparently it was. He was just the monkey. If people wanted answers they could talk to the organ grinder.
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
