Labour plans to overhaul routes into work for sick or long-term unemployed | Labour | The Guardian
Jonathan Ashworth calls lack of support for disabled people a ‘scandal’ and says party would change assessments regime
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
Under Labour’s plan jobcentres would help broker flexible work options, including for older workers with chronic conditions and caring responsibilities.
Under Labour’s plan jobcentres would help broker flexible work options, including for older workers with chronic conditions and caring responsibilities.
 This article is more than 
Labour plans to overhaul routes into work for sick or long-term unemployed
This article is more than 4 months old
Jonathan Ashworth calls lack of support for disabled people a ‘scandal’ and says party would change assessments regime
UK politics live – latest news updates
Tue 10 Jan 2023 11.30 GMT
 government would overhaul routes into work for sick or long-term unemployed people, including a guarantee that those who move into work will not have to face gruelling benefit re-assessments.
The shadow work and pensions secretary, 
, said it was “frankly a scandal” that just one in 10 of out-of-work disabled people or older workers were receiving any support.
He said the party in government would “target the highest employment in the G7” by tackling the systemic challenges preventing people from working.
Devolving employment support to local authorities to target the best routes into work.
Tailored extra support for flexible working for those with caring responsibilities or chronic conditions.
Offers of “in principle” decisions for access-to-work funding for disabled people.
Change the work capability assessment regime to allow people to accept a job without the fear they cannot return to the benefits they were on.
Ashworth said he had experienced both of his parents being out of work as a child, with his mother working two or three jobs in Manchester bars.
“It was crushing. I was young but I remember the haunted looks on faces in the old dole office as my dad queued with me by his side,” he said.
“Unemployment is never a price worth paying, the lesson I took from my upbringing was that employment wasn’t just about a wage but about opening doors to new horizons, aspirations and hopes for the future.”
He said Labour had grave concerns about the growing numbers of people out of work with ill health, with two-thirds living with mental health issues such as depression or anxiety.
In a speech at the Centre for Social Justice, he said the fastest increase were those in younger age groups, but was also the reason for many over-50s leaving employment.
But Ashworth said Labour would end the era of a slew of national programmes to get people into work, which were imposed “regardless of the local economic needs of a community”.
He said it led to a “bewildering spaghetti junction of a fragmented system of different nationally imposed schemes with duplication and confusion failing to achieve the promises ministers make”.
The Guardian revealed this month that Labour was planning to hand major powers to local authorities and turn jobcentres into hubs for skills training and advice for would-be entrepreneurs. The policy is likely to be adopted based on two key reports by Gordon Brown and David Blunkett, which will the building blocks for Labour’s manifesto offer.
But Ashworth said the party would go even further to reach those with complex barriers, saying there would be “genuine tailored help for those out of work to overcome the barriers they face”.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
He said jobcentres would help broker flexible work options, including for older workers with chronic conditions and caring responsibilities.
Ashworth said there were other barriers too preventing people from accepting jobs even if they wanted to move into work, including government funding which allows employers to make workplaces accessible for disabled employees.
“Crucially we will also reform the access to work scheme where the waiting lists for an assessment have trebled and people now wait months for a decision,” he said. “These waiting times are preventing people taking jobs and even losing jobs. It’s shameful.
“Under our changes, people looking for work will be able to apply without a job offer, and be given an ‘in principle’ indicative award so that both they and their future employers know what support will be available for them if they find a job.”
Ashworth said a Labour government would also overhaul assessments, which made some people scared to accept job offers for fear of having to start from scratch with their benefits.
He said the party “would guarantee that people in this position who do move into employment with the help of employment support will be able to return to the benefits they were on without the need for another lengthy assessment process”.
Automated UK welfare system needs more human contact, ministers warned
Chances were missed to save man who starved in Nottingham, report finds
Food banks are taking over from the welfare state, warns Gordon Brown
UK households missing out on £19bn a year in unclaimed welfare benefits
Ofgem to call for vulnerable households register, with 1.7m to miss energy support
Labour is on the warpath at last. But why is it targeting benefit claimants and disabled people?
Benefit sanctions slow people’s progress into work, says report Coffey suppressed
More than 1m children growing up in poverty under two-child benefits limit
Broke and disabled in Tory Britain: the reality of life on one meal a day
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
