Home Office vows to act over ‘invasive’ personal record requests in rape cases | Rape and sexual assault | The Guardian
Official findings show current system ‘causing delays to investigations and access to justice for victims’
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
The safeguarding minister, Sarah Dines, said in a forward to the report that ‘this aspect of the criminal justice system is not functioning effectively’.
The safeguarding minister, Sarah Dines, said in a forward to the report that ‘this aspect of the criminal justice system is not functioning effectively’.
Home Office vows to act over ‘invasive’ personal record requests in rape cases
Official findings show current system ‘causing delays to investigations and access to justice for victims’
UK politics live – latest news updates
Fri 20 Jan 2023 10.08 GMT
Last modified on Fri 20 Jan 2023 10.50 GMT
Rape victims are having “significant” numbers of their personal records “unnecessarily requested” by police, delaying criminal investigations, according to a 
The information sometimes requested as part of police inquiries could include medical records, education and council files or therapy notes.
In some cases, records were being requested to “test” the credibility of victims, the government response to a consultation suggested.
The Home Office vowed to change the law following the findings to better protect victims from “invasive” personal record requests, speed up investigations and help restore confidence in the criminal justice system.
The consultation was launched to learn more about problems surrounding police requests for third party material (TPM), which can be made by police or sought by prosecutors or defence lawyers.
The safeguarding minister, Sarah Dines, in a foreword to the report setting out the findings and the government’s response, said: “The responses to the consultation suggest that this aspect of the criminal justice system is not functioning effectively.
“Victims of some of the most traumatic crimes are having significant amounts of their personal records unnecessarily requested, and the lack of clarity in these requests is causing delays to investigations and access to justice for victims.
“Indeed, victim groups have reported that this invasion of privacy can be a contributing factor to victims withdrawing from the process.”
There were about 400 responses to the consultation, including from police, prosecutors, lawyers, victims and campaign groups.
Most respondents indicated TPM requests about victims of rape and other sexual offences could “sometimes be unnecessary and disproportionate, and made to establish victim credibility, that is, whether the victim has a history of being truthful, as opposed to the facts of the case”, the report said.
It found the way in which requests were made was inconsistent across 
 and Wales but that it was not possible to conclude from which body inappropriate requests typically originated.
The requests could be “time consuming and have a severe impact on victims’ confidence as an infringement on their privacy”, the Home Office said.
Proposals for fresh legislation would give police “clear guidance” on how and when it was appropriate to request access to the information so it was only done when “absolutely necessary and proportionate”, the department said.
Archie Bland and Nimo Omer take you through the top stories and what they mean, free every weekday morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
If the police failed to abide by the statutory duties included in the legislation, they would be in breach of the law and could be open to legal challenge.
Dines said: “We know that sexual abuse investigations have a significant psychological impact on victims, and it is wrong that victims of some of the most traumatic crimes are having significant amounts of their personal records unnecessarily requested.
“This new legislation and guidance will support the police to ensure all requests are completely necessary, and that we can protect victims and deliver justice more quickly.”
The information commissioner, John Edwards, said: “We know from our investigations that the excessive collection of information from victims of rape and serious sexual assault leaves people feeling revictimised by a system they expected to support them.
“The steps set out by [the] government show that change is possible, and alongside work by police and broader work across the UK, we believe progress can be made to prevent victims feeling as though they are being treated as suspects.”
 offers support for rape and sexual abuse on 0808 802 9999 in England and Wales, 0808 801 0302 in 
, or 0800 0246 991 in 
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
