Cost to Treasury of subsidising home energy bills falls by £5bn, experts say | Energy bills | The Guardian
Drop in wholesale gas prices means the cost to the government of the energy price guarantee will be reduced
UK politics live – latest news updates
The Guardian - Back to home
The energy price guarantee will cost the government £37bn, Cornwall Insight predicts.
The energy price guarantee will cost the government £37bn, Cornwall Insight predicts.
 This article is more than 
Cost to Treasury of subsidising home energy bills falls by £5bn, experts say
This article is more than 4 months old
Drop in wholesale gas prices means the cost to the government of the energy price guarantee will be reduced
UK politics live – latest news updates
Wed 4 Jan 2023 12.35 GMT
Last modified on Mon 16 Jan 2023 17.39 GMT
The predicted cost of subsidising household energy bills to the Treasury has fallen by £5bn after a drop in wholesale gas prices, a leading consultancy has said.
Cornwall Insight has forecast the government’s policy to protect households from the cost of living crisis – 
 in recent days amid mild weather and signs that European gas storage levels are higher than expected, after a scramble to replace Russian supplies. If wholesale gas prices remain low through the year, the cost of subsidising bills will significantly reduce.
 it expected the EPG to cost £42bn over 18 months, after the chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, made the policy less generous.
Liz Truss had pledged during her brief tenure as prime minister to keep average bills at £2,500 for two years at 
an estimated cost of between £72bn and £140bn
The intervention spooked financial markets and Hunt later cut it, keeping average bills at £2,500 until April and £3,000 for a year afterwards.
The policy aims to cap consumer energy bills, and compensates suppliers with the difference between the Ofgem price cap and the EPG.
Cornwall Insight had expected the cap to be as high as £3,182 in the second half of the year, but it said on Wednesday it now predicts annual bills to settle at about £2,800 from July – below the £3,000 EPG rate, but more than twice as high as the cap was in 2021.
The consultancy expects the price cap – which is currently £4,279 – to hit £3,545 from April before falling to about £2,800 for the remainder of the year.
The reduction in the policy cost will be a boost to Hunt, who is examining options to extend energy support for businesses. The chancellor is 
meeting with business groups on Wednesday to discuss the issue
 and is expected to halve the Treasury’s energy bill support for firms.
Dr Craig Lowrey, the principal consultant at Cornwall Insight, said: “While it is positive to see a drop in the price cap forecast, household bills are set to remain high. With the energy price guarantee rising in April, the second half of the year will still see a typical household facing bills that are well above historic levels and facing costs that many can ill afford.
Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning
Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our 
. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google 
Risk of UK winter power cuts fades amid fall in wholesale gas prices
“The cap’s fall below the threshold of the EPG will, if wholesale prices continue at this level, effectively see the scheme no longer costing the government. We must remain cautious as the government has essentially been underwriting a volatile wholesale energy market – one which is likely to remain unstable throughout the year.”
He added: “Even if energy prices continue at current levels – which is a big if – the costs to the government over the full period of the EPG are still contributing to government borrowing and will ultimately fall at the feet of consumers in the form of higher taxes.”
Investec analyst Martin Young said the benefits of a one-off support scheme, which hands households £400, will fall away from April while water and council tax bills are expected to rise, exacerbating the cost of living crisis.
North Sea oil and gas workers vote to strike amid bumper profits
Monthly insolvencies in England and Wales hit three-year high
Pressure rises on Hunt as 2m more households fall into fuel poverty
More than 1m UK small businesses ‘trapped in high-cost energy tariffs’
UK efforts to deal with energy crisis ‘raise risk of missing net zero target’
Game over: UK arcades face closure threat as energy bills soar by 1,000%
‘Energy battle’ between Europe and Russia not over, says global watchdog
Soaring fuel bills may push 141m more into extreme poverty globally – study
Cut in energy support to firms ‘threatens UK decarbonisation’
Businesses berate ‘scattergun’ approach to UK government energy support
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
