Elon Musk was never a liberal, and his plans for Twitter were never benevolent | Thomas Zimmer | The Guardian
Tech barons’ lip-service to democracy and pluralism was always conditional on preserving their own positions at the top
The Guardian - Back to home
‘Since Elon Musk took over, he has encouraged far-right conspiracy theories, constantly derided Democrats, liberals, and anyone he perceives as part of “the Left”’
‘Since Elon Musk took over, he has encouraged far-right conspiracy theories, constantly derided Democrats, liberals, and anyone he perceives as part of “the Left”’
 This article is more than 
Elon Musk was never a liberal, and his plans for Twitter were never benevolent
This article is more than 4 months old
Tech barons’ lip-service to democracy and pluralism was always conditional on preserving their own positions at the top
Wed 21 Dec 2022 11.16 GMT
Last modified on Thu 5 Jan 2023 06.39 GMT
 polled Twitter users on whether he should step down as CEO. The answer was a resounding yes. On Tuesday, Musk announced that he will step down once he finds a replacement. Still, the damage has been done: Musk’s tenure has been a disaster for democracy.
Elon Musk is a Jekyll and Hyde character. And as head of Twitter, Hyde is winning | John Naughton
Since Elon Musk took over Twitter, he has encouraged far-right conspiracy theories, 
 and coddled extremists who propagated them, changed or undermined content moderation in a way that allowed hate speech and far-right abuse to flourish, and constantly derided Democrats, liberals and anyone he perceives as part of “the Left” in an escalating crusade against “wokeism”. He is now 
banning critical voices, including those of mainstream journalists
 with the worldview that dominates among far-right reactionary extremists. Yet, many observers seem reluctant to acknowledge that what is happening is exactly what it looks like. People who cover the tech world are still searching for a grand business strategy that would explain all this behavior. And some people whose main occupation is to cover politics are also struggling. The New York Times recently declared Musk’s politics 
, and said that “what he stands for remains largely unclear”.
The source of confusion seems to be that Musk’s actions collide with certain assumptions about the supposedly liberal tech world and with Musk’s own previous claims about his political leanings. But the male-dominated tech world seemed “liberal” only because it was associated with technical progress, while most of the (predominantly male) tech oligarchs were happy to present a culturally permissive image. And people say all sorts of things about their political leanings and may even believe them – that doesn’t mean we should take their proclamations at face value. What people actually do, the political projects they support, is far more relevant.
So, what’s up with Musk’s politics? There are more or less fruitful ways to tackle that question. It is not very useful to obsess over what Musk “really” believes, or react to every one of his trolling attempts by trying to disprove and debunk them. We should 
 the underlying political project – because it constitutes a direct threat to democracy and it is the reason why simply ignoring a man with such a powerful platform will not work.
From a democratic perspective, it’s highly problematic that tech oligarchs like Musk are amassing so much power and influence. They are not democratically controlled in any way or guided by any concern for the public good. Musk is yet another example of how short the path from a certain kind of libertarianism to the far right is, a reminder that this type of libertarianism is driven by a desire for freedom from regulation and criticism of any kind.
Musk believes that the world works best if people like him are in charge and get to do as they please, unhampered by regulations or demands for equality – because their interests ought to be the same as humanity’s. It’s an inherently anti-democratic worldview that tracks very well with the reactionary idea that the world should be run by wealthy white men. This is what is pulling these people to the right, and why they eventually gravitate toward autocratic regimes at home and abroad.
But what about the fact that Musk doesn’t subscribe to all the typical “conservative” policy positions and never described himself as a “conservative”? Well, he certainly subscribes to the only position that matters on the right today: he is rabidly anti-“Left”. It has become dogma on the right to define Democrats, liberals and “the Left” as an illegitimate, “un-American” threat – that all measures, regardless of how extreme, are justified in the defense of “real America” against the “woke” onslaught. That’s exactly where Musk is.
This doesn’t necessarily signal a fundamental change of his politics and worldview. It’s more plausible to think of his trajectory as an activation of reactionary sensibilities and an accelerating process of radicalization, but not an aberration. Much like other predominantly white, predominantly male elites who have been radicalizing to the right, Musk’s acceptance of democracy and pluralism was always conditional and contingent largely on whether or not it would be set up in a way that preserved their status at the top. That certainly doesn’t mean Musk was ever on board with the idea of leveling traditional hierarchies of wealth, race, or gender – clearly, he was not. As soon as his elite status as an obscenely wealthy white man was scrutinized, his fundamental politics was activated.
And now that inherently anti-democratic, anti-egalitarian worldview is animating the man in charge of the world’s most important political communications platform, a virtual public square functioning as an essential part of democratic culture. 
 could have been, should have been, so much better. But its enormous influence on the broader public, media and political discourses is undeniable.
Twitter established a conversation between people in positions to shape the political and public imaginary – journalists, politicians, public figures – and people who would otherwise never have access to those levels of influence. Most importantly, Twitter has been instrumental in amplifying the voices, demands, and critiques of traditionally marginalized groups. That’s where it really demonstrated its democratizing potential.
Much of the moral panic over “cancel culture” – which animated Musk to buy Twitter in the first place – is a reaction to the fact that traditionally marginalized groups gained technological means to affect the political debate.
Twitter has been crucial in this uphill struggle: a tool for organizing, a platform, a global amplifier that enabled people with no traditional access to power to speak to powerful elites directly and criticize them in the public square. How valuable this has been is evidenced by the fact that many of those elites are so consistently bemoaning “persecution” – and, like Musk, wish to sabotage and destroy this instrument for public criticism. To the extent that traditional societal elites – and elite white men in particular – face a little more scrutiny today than in the past, Twitter has helped to democratize public life.
Losing this will hurt – it will hurt the attempts to finally make America live up to the promise of egalitarian multiracial pluralism, to become the democracy it never has been yet. It is a massive failure that those elected to safeguard democracy have seemingly cared little about this.
Thomas Zimmer is a visiting professor at Georgetown University, focused on the history of democracy and its discontents in the United States, and a Guardian US contributing opinion writer
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
© 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (modern)
