Climate doomsters are once again hijacking science to push a toxic agenda
There must be a horrible thrill in predicting the apocalypse when you’re safe; warm, dry, with the internet at your fingertips whisking goods and services your way. Which must be why so many safe, dry, warm, well-to-do and upper crust denizens of the West seem to enjoy making such predictions. They’re certainly not about the truth, nor about scientific consensus.
But they are attention-grabbing. On CBS’s 
 last week, famous Stanford biologist Paul Ehrlich claimed we are facing a “sixth mass extinction”.
“No, humanity is not sustainable to maintain our lifestyle – yours and mine,” he said. “Basically, for the entire planet, you’d need five more Earths. It’s not clear where they’re gonna come from.”
Indeed. But then, we don’t need five more earths, a trope in greenism that has been debunked in scientific literature, including by Peter Kareiva, former chief scientist for The Nature Conservancy who, with co-authors, found that mankind is actually keeping in balance five out of six of the measures, such as food and and forestry, of the management of our “ecological footprint”. 
 are the only indicator that is out of whack. But the best scientists aren’t crying hair-shirtism and doom about it. They are working day and night on lowering emissions through alternative forms of energy and ways of actually expelling carbon from the earth’s atmosphere so that one day we will be able to actually reverse, not simply slow, the damage.
The mass extinction thesis is as faulty as it is popular. The most recent report from the 
 mentions the “potential” for mass extinctions when climate changes by over 4.2 degrees centigrade, based on the paleo record of 66 million years ago. The “catastrophic impacts on species and ecosystems” outlined in the report may depend on what you consider catastrophic; the Swiss-based International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has estimated that 0.8 percent of the 112,432 plant, animal, and insect species within its data have gone extinct since 1500. While any extinction of species is a shame, and damages the ecosystem, an annual extinction rate of 0.001 percent is bad, but not, perhaps, a catastrophe.
This is not the first time apocalypse junkie Ehrlich has been wrong, or at the very least injudicious in his assertions. But instead of taking his predictions with a large pinch of salt, we take them more seriously than ever; we hanker for them, we call for them, we shout them from the rooftops.
Thus while CBS noted Ehrlich’s history of erroneous alarm-sounding, specifically in 1968 when he insisted that the 1970s would see widespread famine caused by overpopulation, it could not help itself from swallowing whole what he said about the human-caused “sixth mass extinction”, giving the programme’s millions of viewers and their children the wrong idea, and a terrifying one at that.
The science of climate is complicated. But what is easy to spot, for those unblinded by green orthodoxy, is that the Western obsession with extinction is not necessarily about a genuine concern for future generations, as it claims, but stems instead from a much darker impulse: an anti-humanism that has become a major new frontier in politics, particularly progressive politics.
This new frontier is rooted primarily in the desire to destroy human progress, which is ironic given the self-styled progressivism of the position. It claims to want to save the planet for people as well as plants and animals, but actually sees people as the problem, and the planet as better off without us altogether. And while it purports to be harnessing the science, it is manipulating and distorting it.
Nobody sane disputes that climate change produces negative effects that ruin agriculture and lives. What is insane is the climate messianism of the 
 and the Thunbergs and the Ehrlichs of the world – and yet it is this that is increasingly taken as respectable, obvious and true.
History should make us more wary of such claims. Ehrlich and his ilk made a range of wildly wrong predictions in the years around the first ever Earth Day in 1970. Harvard biologist George Wald was sure that “civilization will end within 15 or 30 years unless immediate action is taken against problems facing mankind.” Ecologist Kenneth Watt declared, “By the year 2000, if present trends continue, we will be using up crude oil at such a rate…that there won’t be any more crude oil. You’ll drive up to the pump and say, ‘Fill ‘er up, buddy,’ and he’ll say, ‘I am very sorry, there isn’t any.” In 1970, 
magazine told readers: “scientists have solid experimental and theoretical evidence to support…the following predictions: In a decade, urban dwellers will have to wear gas masks to survive air pollution…”
That views like these have come back into vogue shows the derangement of contemporary Left orthodoxy, which has once again abandoned class warfare for internationalism and grandiose claims about humanity. Even as biochemists and big pharma rushed out the 
 man had ever seen – the development and delivery of a Covid vaccine from scratch in under one year, saving tens of millions of lives – many on the Erlichian Left prefer to only see man’s sin and greed. Covid, it was popular to insist, was our punishment for polluting the earth. And this crew has scant interest in the good things people and markets do, such as innovate and grow, allowing more people to lift themselves out of poverty and producing a tide of medical and scientific breakthroughs.
Once fringe, the extremes, fallacies and lunacy of the environmental activist movement have moved centre. Our job is not to swallow them whole, as CBS did, but to respond with reason and optimism. Any mess humans get themselves into they can get out of, as long as they decline to fall down the rabbit hole of human-hating greenism.
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
Parkrun women&#39;s record held by transgender attempted murderer
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Prince Harry had no right to intervene in fight to pay for police protection, says judge
Killer of Nikki Allan, seven, to serve at least 29 years in prison
Baroness Falkner determined to fight attempted coup by &#39;young, liberal civil servants&#39;
