Rishi Sunak seatbelt investigation &#39;waste of police resources&#39;
Rishi Sunak being investigated by police after 
 is not a “good use of frontline resources”, a Conservative MP has said.
Mr Sunak was seen without a seatbelt in the back of a moving car on Thursday morning as he was filmed for an Instagram video.
The clip was subsequently deleted from social media and Downing Street issued an apology, saying it had been a “brief error of judgment”. 
Lancashire Police subsequently said it was “aware of the matter and we will be 
Scott Benton, the MP for Blackpool South, suggested complaints about the incident would be “politically motivated” and the “vast majority” of Britons would rather crime-fighting efforts were focused elsewhere.
“Lancashire Police do an amazing job, but I’m sure their time is better spent investigating serious crime which impacts on my constituents,” he wrote on Twitter.
“The vast majority of people would think that politically motivated complaints about a seatbelt are not good use of frontline resources.”
‘Matter for police where they allocate resources’
Government guidance says any driver or passenger not wearing a seatbelt is breaking the law.
Anyone over the age of 14 who is caught not wearing a seatbelt on the road can be given an on-the-spot fine of up to £100. Ministers considered a further crackdown last year, which would have seen 
 of motorists who were caught.
Asked whether Mr Benton’s view was shared by Mr Sunak, a Downing Street spokesman said: “It’s entirely a matter for the police where they allocate resources.”
The spokesman added he was not aware that there had been any contact between the Prime Minister and Lancashire Police since the statement was issued by the force.
‘PM believes everyone should wear a seatbelt’
Asked whether Mr Sunak believed that nobody should be above the law, the spokesman said: “Of course. The Prime Minister believes everyone should wear a seatbelt. 
“It was an error of judgment, he removed it for a short period of time to film a clip, which you&#39;ve seen, but he accepts that was a mistake.”
Mr Sunak’s opponents continued to attack him over the video on Thursday as Nick Thomas-Symonds, the shadow international trade secretary, argued it would be “very serious” if Mr Sunak were to receive a fixed penalty notice.
“It says a great deal about the depths of which this Conservative Government has sunk that we’re here talking about the Prime Minister on potentially his second police fine,” Mr Thomas-Symonds told Sky News. “That’s just the evidence we need to clean up politics.”
Mr Sunak was fined by the Metropolitan Police
 in relation to Boris Johnson’s “birthday party” in the Cabinet room on June 19, 2020, when lockdown restrictions were in place.
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Boris Johnson referred to police again over new claims he broke lockdown rules
Rishi Sunak warns uncontrolled migration creating &#39;unmanageable pressure&#39;
Controlled legal migration is fairer and better for everyone
MPs yearn for some proper scandals as outrage over Suella Braverman&#39;s speeding fine stalls
