Wednesday evening news briefing: How Ukraine will unleash the Leopards
Good evening. After days of mounting international pressure on Berlin, Germany has finally approved the delivery of Leopard 2 battle tanks to Ukraine. Washington has also confirmed it will send 31 Abrams tanks. But what next? Despite U-turning on tanks, the German Chancellor remains insistent that no fighter jets will be delivered.
| Sir Keir Starmer claimed the job of prime minister is 
, as he criticised him for failing to sack Nadhim Zahawi as Tory party chairman. The Labour leader said Mr Sunak’s handling of the row &#34;shows how hopelessly weak&#34; he is. The Prime Minister said it would have been 
 before PMQs, but said he believed in &#34;proper due process&#34;. Meanwhile, No 10 repeatedly refused to say whether Mr Sunak has ever paid a tax penalty, 
Asylum seeker who murdered aspiring Marine jailed for life
‘Advanced AI could kill everyone’, warn Oxford researchers 
Covid-19 booster jab offer set to end
Calls to remove transgender rapist from female prison
The big story: How the Leopards will be unleashed
Barring any final twists in this particular act, it looks as if Ukraine’s leaders will finally have their dream of Western tanks realised. 
Germany will provide 14 Leopards as a first step
 and, after weeks of sustained international pressure, give European allies permission to export their German-made tanks in a Western coalition supplying and maintaining them. Meanwhile, President Joe Biden has confirmed that the US will also provide 31 Abrams tanks. 
On Wednesday morning, Norway, the Netherlands and Spain said they were poised to join Poland, Finland and Portugal in committing Leopard IIs from their armies. Denmark and Sweden are also considering sending tanks. But can the Ukrainians use them? 
Tanks cannot take enemy positions and hold ground on their own
For that, battlefield commanders need other parts of the military orchestra to all be in tune. These include infantry, engineer assets, as well as artillery to cover the flanks and depth targets. The whole performance also needs an umbrella of air defence to stop Russian jets and helicopters interfering - 
find out what more is required to use the Leopards successfully here
For now, Ukrainian troops and civilians will have to rely on their ability to be adept at battlefield innovation. However, they will need to do even more patching up on a systemic industrial scale to meet this challenge. 
Time will be an important factor. Getting tanks and other armoured equipment into the country and even to the front line is likely to be 
measured in weeks for the Leopards and Challengers, and perhaps months for the Abrams
But that’s just the delivery service. Extra time, and locations outside the country, will be needed to train the crews and maintainers. If you want to find out more about why the Leopards are so important - 
this explainer piece has the answers to all your questions
Despite performing an apparent U-turn on sending in the Leopards, Olaf Scholz 
insisted he was “right” to delay sending the tanks to Ukraine
. The German chancellor said the goal was to donate two battalions – about 80 tanks – to Kyiv in total, meeting a demand first raised by Ukraine soon after Russia’s invasion. 
Addressing the German parliament, Mr Scholz vowed to never change 
 if doing so meant risking war with Russia. He had refused to give the green light for the Leopards until Washington promised to send M1-Abrams tanks as well. The US pledged at least 30 Abrams on Tuesday, 
breaking a deadlock that risked damaging Germany’s standing with its allies
As he announced Germany&#39;s decision to provide the tanks, Mr Scholz maintained, however, that 
no fighter jets will be delivered to Ukraine
. He said Berlin wanted to avoid an escalation of the war so it &#34;doesn&#39;t become a war between Russia and Nato&#34;. 
, a retired Air Marshal and combat pilot who was the UK’s Air Commander for 4 years, argues 
that to win the war, Ukraine needs F-16 jets
He writes that the addition of the F-16 in significant numbers would not only protect the Ukrainian Army and people on the ground now, but also be the tip of the spear when holding the ensuing peace later - 
UK on brink of becoming an economic basket case
BBC has decided that golf is only for the old and grey
 I’ve changed my mind on gay church marriages
Can Britain really be trusted with assisted dying?
Hands in pockets isn’t big, clever or funny
World news: Virginia Giuffre &#39;signs book deal&#39;
reportedly signed a book deal with a publisher, a year after settling a sex abuse lawsuit with the Duke of York
. Virginia Giuffre, 39, has been working on a memoir detailing her abuse at the hands of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell, the rights to which could sell for millions of dollars. Prince Andrew, 62, settled a civil case with Ms Giuffre last year, however he did not admit any wrongdoing as part of the settlement. It is understood part of the deal struck was a one-year gag clause that prevented Ms Giuffre from publicly repeating the allegations against the Duke - 
Janet McTeer: ‘I realised very quickly that I was never going to be the pretty one’
As she prepares to put a modern spin on a notorious anti-heroine, the actress talks about standing out from the crowd
Sport news: Fan wears &#39;Z&#39; symbol at Australian Open
Pro-Russia protesters have targeted the Australian Open 
with a fan displaying the controversial ‘Z’ symbol on Rod Laver Arena 
and flags picturing the face of Vladimir Putin paraded outside Melbourne Park. 
reports that a section of supporters chanted “Serbia, Russia, Serbia, Russia” on the steps of the main show court in Melbourne, while an image of Putin’s face on a Russian flag was flown by one fan, 
following Novak Djokovic’s victory over Russia’s Andrey Rublev
‘My family have been to every coronation since 1066 – I’m waiting for my invitation’
The five health treatments you should go private for
The women whose childcare costs are so high there&#39;s no point working
Business news: Amazon workers strike in Coventry
Amazon workers have staged their first official UK strike action, walking out of the online retail giant&#39;s Coventry warehouse 
in protest against a 50p pay rise amid claims staff are &#34;treated like robots&#34;
. Around 300 Amazon workers were expected to down tools and join picket lines. The strike action began at Amazon&#39;s Coventry centre at midnight on Tuesday. 
 writes that the GMB union called for a walk-out after balloting members in December. The union is 
demanding an increase in pay from £10 to £15 per hour
How to turn 13 days of annual leave into 38 days of holiday (and where to go) 
| Savvy travellers know the value of judiciously using the bank holidays to their advantage to spend as much time as possible relaxing under a palm tree drinking cocktails out of coconuts. This year offers even more chances to maximise your annual leave, with an extra bank holiday to mark the King’s coronation on May 8. Here we explain how you can
 turn 13 days of annual leave into 38 days of holidays.
The five signs you’re a middle-class beauty cliche
And finally... for this evening&#39;s downtime
The ultimate guide to the Scotland of Robert Burns 
| There’s something about Robert Burns. More statues have been erected to Scotland’s national poet around the world than to any other literary figure. From ruined churches to cosy drinking dens, find out how 
the legacy of Scotland&#39;s national poet is writ large across the country
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email, 
sign up to the Front Page newsletter here
 . For two-minute audio updates, try 
 - on podcasts and smart speakers.
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
Parkrun women&#39;s record held by transgender attempted murderer
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Prince Harry had no right to intervene in fight to pay for police protection, says judge
Killer of Nikki Allan, seven, to serve at least 29 years in prison
Baroness Falkner determined to fight attempted coup by &#39;young, liberal civil servants&#39;
