Gary Neville suggests Tories’ attitude to nurses is like Qatar’s human rights record
Former footballer Gary Neville was accused of “hypocrisy” on Sunday night after he appeared to equate Qatar’s appalling human rights record with the British government’s decision not to give in to nursing union pay demands.
Appearing as an ITV pundit for the World Cup final, the Labour supporter 
 for workers’ rights and its poor housing.
But he then went on to equate this to the Conservative government, which he said was “terrifying” nurses by not agreeing to union pay demands 
for a 19 per cent increase
Mr Neville’s comments come after he attracted controversy for agreeing to work 
as a pundit for BeIN Sports
 during the World Cup - a sports network run by the Qatari state. It is not known how much he has been paid.
 criticised the kafala system, under which 
 have been monitored - a system that human rights organisations say amounts to exploitation.
But he went on to accuse the British government of “demonising” ambulance workers and railway drivers.
He said: “The working system of kafala which obviously through football the conversation has started and it&#39;s been removed here now in Qatar but it is abhorrent and we should detest low pay, we should detest 
“We can never accept that in this region or any other region and it is just worth mentioning we’ve got a current government in our country that are demonising rail workers, ambulance workers and terrifying nurses.
“In our country, we’ve got to look at workers’ rights but when football goes, we have to pick up on workers’ rights wherever it goes because people have got to be equal and treated equal.
“We can&#39;t have people being paid an absolute pittance to work, we can&#39;t have people in accommodation that is unsavoury and disgusting. It shouldn&#39;t happen here. 
“That shouldn&#39;t happen here with the wealth that exists. But it shouldn&#39;t happen with the nurses in our country either where our nurses are having to fight for an extra pound or two pounds.”
But on Sunday night, Andrew RT Davies, the Welsh Conservative leader, said: “He took the shilling and his credibility is shot. 
“Every single virtue signal from now on stenches of hypocrisy.”
He took the shilling and his credibility is shot. 
Every single virtue signal from now on stenches of hypocrisy. 
Tory MP Simon Clarke tweeted: “It is beyond ridiculous that &#64;GNev2 is given free rein by &#64;ITVSport to overtly politicise a major sporting event. Quite apart from the fact every nurse is receiving a pay rise of £1400, to compare workers’ rights in Qatar with the UK is grotesque.&#34;
Nigel Farage commented: “Gary Neville is taking the biscuit here. I thought he was paid by ITV to do football punditry?”
Tory MP Lee Anderson posted: “Another party political broadcast by a millionaire. Looks like ITV is on my banned list now. Talk about football Gary and keep your nose out of politics. You don’t know what you’re talking about.”
In the run-up to the World Cup, 
 hosted a documentary in which he condemned the ways migrant workers were treated in the Gulf country in a documentary.
When Qatar was awarded the tournament, there were also allegations of corruption and bribery in the bidding process.
While FIFA cleared Qatar of corruption allegations following its own investigation, it did admit there had been &#39;potentially problematic conduct of specific individuals&#39; during the bidding process.
Later in the ITV discussion on Sunday night, Roy Keane, the former Irish international. said that despite an enjoyable four weeks of football, the Qatar World Cup has been tainted by the controversy surrounding it.
“This World Cup is stained,” he said. “That&#39;s the bottom line. The football’s been great but the football was always going to be great because you’ve got world-class players but it is stained.”
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Boris Johnson referred to police again over new claims he broke lockdown rules
Rishi Sunak warns uncontrolled migration creating &#39;unmanageable pressure&#39;
Controlled legal migration is fairer and better for everyone
MPs yearn for some proper scandals as outrage over Suella Braverman&#39;s speeding fine stalls
