Nadhim Zahawi let public down with efforts to push back on tax inquiries, standards chief says
The chairman of the committee on standards in public life has criticised 
 in an attempt to push back on 
Lord Evans, the former boss of MI5
, said in an interview that Mr Zahawi’s behaviour went against the Nolan Principles, which include integrity and leadership.
It comes as former Cabinet ministers and senior Tory figures 
broke ranks to call on their chairman to quit
paying a penalty over “errors” in his tax affairs
, which were deemed “careless but not deliberate” by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
It has emerged that Mr Zahawi threatened The Independent newspaper three times with legal action when asked for his response to inquiries by the National Crime Agency and HMRC.
Lawyers acting on his behalf have also sent letters to 
Dan Neidle, a former Magic Circle lawyer
 and Labour activist who has spent months on his own investigations into the former chancellor.
Nadhim Zahawi's answers to questions over tax affairs
Asked on Tuesday about the row, Lord Evans told BBC Radio 4’s PM programme: “If you’re trying to close down a legitimate public debate, I don’t think that lives up to the standards Lord Nolan laid down and which the Government has committed itself to.
“Accountability [and] openness are things which the Government says that it wants to be characterising its own behaviour, so that I think speaks for itself.
“The sort of attempts, apparent legal attempts to suppress this story … I don’t think that does live up to the sort of standards that the public would rightly expect.”
Allies of Mr Zahawi, whose spokesman declined to comment on the peer’s remarks, have always insisted there was 
no deliberate wrongdoing on his part
He has said he will stay in his post during an investigation by 
Sir Laurie Magnus, the Prime Minister’s independent ethics adviser
On Tuesday Caroline Nokes, the women and equalities committee chairman, became the first backbencher in Mr Zahawi’s own party 
to publicly say he should resign
 - telling the BBC he should “stand aside until this matter is all cleared up”.
The Telegraph has talked to a number of senior backbenchers including ones who, like Mr Zahawi, have helped run Conservative Campaign Headquarters in recent years.
One former vice-chairman, who has also served in the Cabinet, said: “My thoughts are that something doesn’t seem right. I just think it 
might be better if he stepped aside
 until the issue is resolved.”
What an absolute bloody car crash
. It’s very damaging to have all this stuff in the headlines. Can he stay in post? I’m afraid I think he has to go.”
Should Nadhim Zahawi be sacked as Tory chairman? Poll
There are also fears the ongoing row over Mr Zahawi’s tax affairs, which is into its 10th day, will come as a “gift” to Sir Keir Starmer at Prime Minister’s Questions on Wednesday.
On Tuesday, Downing Street said Sir Laurie’s investigation should be carried out “swiftly” but that there was no timeline or date by which it should be completed - meaning it could potentially run for months.
Rishi Sunak is confident Mr Zahawi
 has always told the truth to him about his taxes, his official spokesman said: “The investigation looks at any potential breaches of the Ministerial Code.
“As you&#39;ll know, I won&#39;t get into being prescriptive about how the advice goes about ascertaining that.”
Several former Cabinet ministers have told The Telegraph the 
time has come for Mr Zahawi to stand down
 and another said Mr Zahawi had “been fatally wounded by this”, adding: “It looks like very sadly it will be a question of when, not if.”
Another senior backbencher said: “It is a gift to Labour. It just takes us back to sleazy, incredibly rich … People just laugh at the £27 million figure. 
“Nadhim is so gifted, and of integrity in the way that he governs, but this undermines a lot of his good work.
But one MP who is supportive of Mr Zahawi took aim at a “witch-hunt culture”, saying: “Politics isn’t fair, and those who want to pursue him won’t give up.”
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Boris Johnson referred to police again over new claims he broke lockdown rules
Rishi Sunak warns uncontrolled migration creating &#39;unmanageable pressure&#39;
Controlled legal migration is fairer and better for everyone
MPs yearn for some proper scandals as outrage over Suella Braverman&#39;s speeding fine stalls
