Boris Johnson was secretly ‘nudged’ into wearing a Covid mask by government scientists
Boris Johnson was secretly ‘nudged’ into wearing a facemask during the pandemic, according to the head of the government’s Behavioural Insights Team.
In an interview for the Reckitt Global Hygiene Institute 
, Professor David Halpern says he turned his subliminal powers of persuasion on the prime minister himself after it became apparent he was not leading by example. 
Prof Haplern is a member of Sage and CEO of the controversial ‘nudge unit’, which advised on much of the government’s messaging during the pandemic, including the ‘Hands, Face, Space’ and ‘Stay home – Protect the NHS’ slogans.
In the interview, which considers the politics and culture of mask wearing around the world, Prof Halpern describes how he helped nudge Mr Johnson to wear a mask himself.
“We did share with him a slide pack at one point. It had a series of images of pretty much every single world leader wearing a mask, and then a picture with him not”. This subliminal prod was used to point out that “a 
 thing for a world leader to do right now is wear a mask,” Prof Halpern added.
Prof Halpern co-authored the 2010 
 document for the Cabinet Office which listed all the nine subconscious prompts for which there is a solid evidence base. Chief among these nudges is the idea that we conform to “social norms” – that we tend to do what those around us are already doing once it is drawn to our attention.
The debate over mask wearing heated up again this week after the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said people should wear masks if they are ill and need to go out in a bid to reduce pressures on the NHS this winter.
In his interview, Prof Halpern contrasts the widespread use of facemasks in south east Asian countries with their widespread rejection in the West, noting they are “tighter” societies characterised by a more “collectivist” culture than our own.
However, he adds that he believes the behavioural “scaffolding” can still be put in place to encourage mask wearing in Britain.
“You try and create some cues which remind people. Eventually, as it starts to become a habit, it becomes more automatic, then you can take away the scaffolding,” he said.
Protect yourself and your family by learning more about 
What sewage secrets reveal about human health and disease
Giving aid to poorer countries helps prevent migration to UK, says minister
How AI is learning to read the human mind
Taliban repression of Afghan women is form of apartheid, says Nelson Mandela widow Graça Machel
Guyana school fire: At least 19 children dead in dormitory blaze
Cambodia chases herd immunity in dogs to stamp out rabies
