Jacinda Ardern denies quitting over criticism she faced as Prime Minister
 has denied that she resigned because of the level of criticism she faced as leader.
Wearing a traditional Maori cloak, known as a korowai - an item symbolising prestige, she addressed her supporters for the last time while visiting Ratana to celebrate the birth of indigenous prophet Tahupotiki Wiremu Ratana.
 prompted widespread discussion about the vitriolic and misogynistic attacks targeting her on social media.
She has also faced criticism for Labour&#39;s poor performance in the polls, which has been attributed to her strict zero Covid policy, rampant inflation, and a cost of living crisis.
Ahead of heading to Government House in Wellington on Wednesday to resign, she said she was ready to be “a backbench MP ... a sister, and a mom.&#34;
Her daughter Neve is 4 years old and starts school in June.
“You won’t find me commentating on domestic politics – I’ve had my time,” she added.
She said she was departing with a greater affection for New Zealanders than when she became prime minister: “I didn’t think that was possible.&#34;
Ms Ardern also paid tribute to the 
“You knew me as aunty, I hope you know him as Chippy,” she said, in reference to Hipkins’ nickname.
She said the only real advice she could offer was, &#34;You do you.&#34;
The emotional gathering was a fitting farewell for a woman who, along with suffering a vicious level of abuse, also attracted an almost religious-like fervour among some.
The New Zealand Herald reported how her supporters “pressed up against each other, desperate to have their moment with the former leader.”
“We are sad,” one of them confessed to Ms Ardern as she walked by.
“Touch her like Jesus, touch her gown,” another woman urged her friend.
France considers £130bn ‘green tax’ on the super-rich to meet net zero
Ron DeSantis will enter race to be president during event with Elon Musk
Killer whales learn to sink yachts off Gibraltar
Putin’s vitriolic mouthpiece has love-twins born in the USA
Is global superstar Vinicius Junior finally forcing Spain to face its racism demons?
Iran ousts top security official over links to executed ‘British spy’ Alireza Akbari
