Inside Jihad Rehab, the ‘Islamophobic’ documentary the Left doesn’t want you to see
Documentary maker Meg Smaker hopes that British film audiences will help her where those in the US could not. Her film The UnRedacted, about ex-Guantanamo Bay inmates 
, screens this week at an indie cinema in north London, its first British outing since premiering at the 
Given the film’s many rave reviews, a seven-day run at the ArtHouse Crouch End may seem a somewhat low-key release. A clue as to why lies in one of the reviews quoted on the film’s poster. It hails it as a “masterpiece”, but adds: “Don’t let anyone tell you how to feel about it until you see it yourself.”
That, Smaker says, is exactly what happened in the US. The documentary – originally titled Jihad Rehab – features interviews with five ex-Guantanamo prisoners, talking about their pasts and their efforts to adapt back to normal life. Smaker always feared it might cause upset in the US, for showing them as humans, not monsters. But when the backlash came, it was not from a 
on the Right – but from social justice campaigners on the Left.
While fans of the film saw it as textbook Sundance stuff – challenging mainstream media stereotypes – critics claimed it was anything but. It peddled tired Islamophobic narratives, they claimed, jeopardised the detainees’ welfare, and was at best a propaganda exercise for Saudi’s dictatorial rulers. Many of the film’s detractors hadn’t even seen it, although for some, that seemed neither here nor there. The film was problematic, they said, simply because its director – like so many other filmmakers framing Middle Eastern narratives – was white and non-Muslim. As Smaker puts it: “I expected a right-hook for this film. I didn’t expect a left-cross.”   
Given that other Muslim voices had already praised the film – as had the likes of The Guardian, which rated it four stars – the criticisms were by no means a consensus. That did not stop Sundance’s bosses becoming alarmed. After it premiered in January, Sundance director Tabitha Jackson publicly apologised for screening it, and for the “hurt” inflicted on Muslim communities.
That scuppered Smaker’s dreams of finding mainstream distributors, and even saw it dropped from other indie film festivals. Only now, after becoming a cancel-culture cause célèbre, has it made a crowd-funded comeback, allowing Smaker to fund this week’s London screening. The seven-day run is just long enough to make it eligible for the UK’s Baftas – whose judges, she hopes, will give it a fairer hearing than Sundance did.
“Cancel culture has gone crazy in the US, but my hope is that the Bafta judges and other British people will judge it with an open mind and see it for what it is,” she tells me.
Ironically, it was concern about how America saw Muslims that first led Smaker to pick up a camera. When 9-11 happened, she was a 21-year-old firefighter in California, following in her father’s footsteps. She loved the job and the camaraderie of fellow firefighters, but was disturbed by some of their reactions after the attacks, in which 343 New York colleagues died.
“The entire nation felt angry at that time, although in the fire department it probably felt heightened,” she says. “In the beginning it was just toward al-Qaeda, but then it became anyone from the Middle East or Muslim. I had no experience of the Middle East, and everything I saw was through somebody else’s filter, so I decided to remove that filter.”
Not one to do things by halves, Smaker quit her job and spent the next decade immersing herself in the Muslim world. She hitch-hiked through Afghanistan, visited Somalia, and spent five years in Yemen, teaching firefighting and learning Arabic. She also studied film-making, and become intrigued by a place that Yemeni friends first spoke of: the Mohammed bin Nayef Counselling and Care Centre in Riyadh.
This is the official name for what was known colloquially as the “Jihad Rehab” centre, where terror suspects undergo religious and social therapy that can lead to them being freed. The centre has attracted controversy, not least because in 2009, it emerged that five of its alumni had absconded to join al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), a Yemeni terror franchise.
Smaker’s interest in the centre, however, was in the chance it offered to get other ex-detainees to tell their stories. “My film tries to understand these men on a human level – something missing from this narrative for a long time,” she said.
The film has fly-on-the-wall scenes in the centre&#39;s classrooms, showing tutors teaching students the importance of “critical thinking” and respecting diverse views. The classes also act as a finishing school for the challenges of civilian life, offering quaint tips on how to find – and keep – both a job and a wife. “Right now, you smell like sweat – how will she put up with you?” one tutor tells his charges, reminding them that they&#39;re “not getting any younger.”
Smaker focuses on four Yemenis and one Saudi, all with different backgrounds. Khalid, the Saudi, openly expresses “shame” about his past as an al-Qaeda bombmaker. Mohammed, who admits fighting in Afghanistan, says he drifted there after trouble with drugs at home. An older man, Abu Ghanim, says he first took up arms to defend Bosnian Muslims. The film makes no real attempt to establish their guilt or innocence: rather, it suggests they are ordinary men who may have made poor life choices, often from limited options.
Nadir, allegedly a bodyguard for 
, feels he has little to show for his life, even upon release from the centre. “I still don&#39;t have a job, no marriage, no future,” he says. “I am zero.” Another man, Ali al-Raimi, shows angst over his brother Qassim, at that time AQAP&#39;s leader. “This is my brother and I love him...” Ali says. “But as long as he is still alive, more people will die.” (Qassim died in a US drone strike in 2020.)
The film was six years in the making – including a year negotiating access with the Saudi government, and three years&#39; filming – during which Smaker says the men slowly opened up. When Sundance shortlisted it last December for their screenings, it all felt worth it.
“Sundance is like winning the indie film lottery, they get thousands of submissions from around the world, and it puts your film on the map,” Smaker says. “Plus it meant people would talk about Yemen when the focus was all on Ukraine and Syria. I was dreaming about the premiere, what the audience would be like, how the Q&amp;A afterwards would go, and even the jacket I was going to wear.”
Attacks on the film began on social media immediately after the shortlisting, taking issue also with its original title. While “Jihad Rehab” was the English term used by staff at the centre – and could easily be grasped by audiences – objectors pointed out that jihad can mean any holy struggle, not just one of war. Smaker later changed its title to The UnRedacted.
Sundance still pressed ahead with the premiere, after first requiring Smaker to hire a law firm to review and vouch for the documentary&#39;s film-making ethics. That did not seem to satisfy its critics.
An open letter to the festival organisers was signed by scores of people identified as “Muslim, Middle Eastern, North African and South Asian filmmakers”. It said: “By platforming Jihad Rehab, the Sundance Film Festival engaged in reckless programming that: (a) may have jeopardized the safety and security of the people in the film; (b) provided a platform for subpar journalistic ethics and standards; and c) reproduced bias against Muslims.”
Separately, there were gripes on social media that the film was made by a “white” film team - reflecting a weariness with Middle East coverage by Western journalists ignorant of its complexities. That, though, was hardly a fair description of Smaker or her team, who included a Saudi co-producer and a Yemeni executive producer. Besides, as a citizen of the country attacked in 9-11, Smaker arguably retained as much right as anyone else to make films on Islamist extremism.
The film also ran into long-running sensitivities over Guantanamo, where the four Yemenis had spent 15 years without ever being put on trial. While the lack of due process is mentioned by the interviewees, Smaker amended the movie to make it clearer that none had ever been convicted.
A thornier issue was over whether the men could freely agree to being interviewed, given that they were still in Saudi custody. Might the government be prodding them behind the scenes? Smaker says the centre insisted the men had to give her their written permission, and that of 150 prisoners she met, only a handful agreed. (The four Yemenis agreed partly because Smaker had spent so much time there.)
Some critics insist that no detainee in an autocracy like Saudi Arabia can ever really give truly informed consent. Taken to its logical conclusion, though, that might make it ethically tricky for any journalist to interview prisoners in dictatorships, or even publicise their causes for fear of official retribution. (One of this year&#39;s Sundance winners, for example, features Russian dissident 
The lawyer Clive Stafford-Smith, who has represented Guantanamo Bay detainees, told The Telegraph that the men were questioned about statements that they had made made during torture in US custody, and that they should have been allowed to have lawyers present when interviewed by Smaker.  
CAGE, the British advocacy group representing War on Terror detainees, also claims that at least one interviewee has since told them he now fears for his life – although the Saudi government officially forbids the interviewees from unauthorised contact outside Saudi Arabia.
With the row over the film not going away, Sundance subsequently apologised for screening it, and issued a long statement about striking a balance between “freedom of creative expression” and “proper context”. The festival also pledged to address “representation, authorship, and the perpetuation of stereotypes, particularly as they apply to oppressed/marginalized communities.”
For Smaker, though, the well-meaning words did not hide the fact that she had been placed on a pedestal and spectacularly booted off it. “It was like going to my wedding day in perfect dress, and then having someone throw a bucket of s--- over me just as I was reaching the altar. Sundance is supposed to launch your career as a filmmaker – it destroyed mine.”
Also changing tack was one of the film&#39;s executive producers, Abigail Disney – a relative of Walt Disney – who had previously been both a financier and enthusiastic cheerleader. Previously she had written to Smaker saying: “This film is SOOOO good and SOOO gorgeously shot and SOOOO well edited... You have made something great.”
At the end of February, however, she issued her own public apology for the film, saying it had landed “like a truckload of hate”. “I absolutely failed to understand just how exhausted by and disgusted with the perpetual representation of Muslim men and women as terrorists or former terrorists or potential terrorists the Muslim people are,” she said.
Smaker says that “if Sundance&#39;s apology was putting the film in the coffin, Disney&#39;s was the nail.” Worse still, she says, critics reached out via social media to other people named in the credits, inviting them to dissociate themselves from the film or risk reputational ruin.
But as Smaker contemplated the demise of her career – by this time she was broke as well as toxic –the furore drew others to her defence.  They included the Foundation Against Intolerance and Racism (FAIR), a civil liberties group that opposes de-platforming. One board member, Zaid Jilani, a journalist of Pakistani Muslim heritage, wrote: “It’s hard to shake the feeling that if I had directed this exact same film the exact same way, it would be getting little to no criticism from anyone.”
He also decried how “progressive” US cultural institutions were adopting “deeply reactionary and sectarian views” about whether people with different ancestry could ever really understand each other. “This is happening as other parts of the world are questioning this sectarian thinking,” he said.
Some of US journalism&#39;s biggest names also sympathised, including Sebastian Junger, the man behind the Oscar-nominated Afghan documentary Restrepo. In an article for America&#39;s National Review, he wrote: “The premise of foreign reporting is that you don’t have to be Jewish to understand the Holocaust, black to understand civil rights, or dispossessed to understand ethnic cleansing; being human is sufficient.”
Some of Smaker&#39;s critics feel they themselves have now been misrepresented, arguing that the question of Smaker&#39;s whiteness – which not all took issue with – has overshadowed their other complaints. They also claim that in the febrile, fractious discourse of current US politics, they themselves have suffered a backlash by speaking out.
Whatever their own views, British audiences will now have a chance to see the film themselves – thanks largely to a podcast interview that Smaker did with the US philosopher Sam Harris, which raised $750,000 for her GoFundMe campaign. Even so, she claims it has not been straightforward to get the film UK screenings. “Our cinema booking agent reached out to multiple people, and quite a few were afraid that the controversy could make life difficult for their cinema outlets.”
Rather than sparking further uproar, she hopes it will now simply get the mainstream distribution she always felt it deserved. She fears, though, that next time another indie filmmaker wants to tackle a contentious subject, they may think twice about taking it to Sundance.
“The implications are beyond alarming,” she says. “All big US film studios worry about advertisers, but the one place I would expect to take challenging content would be the indie sector. If that is taken away, where else are you supposed to go?”
The UnRedacted is showing at the 
, London N8, until December 29
Asteroid City, Cannes review: Gen-Z whimsy-seekers beware – this is Wes Anderson’s oddest film yet
Club Zero, Cannes, review: a teen dieting drama starved of ideas
How Netflix became striking writers’ public enemy number one
The Little Mermaid, review: an exciting, enveloping remake that deserves to make a splash
Anatomy of a Fall, Cannes review: a sparkling intellectual thriller that lingers for days
Firebrand, Cannes, review: Jude Law’s horribly good Henry VIII is a right royal Weinstein
