Who are the candidates to replace Jacinda Ardern as Prime Minister?
 on Thursday has meant New Zealand&#39;s ruling Labour Party is looking for a new leader. 
Ms Ardern said on Thursday she had &#34;no more in the tank&#34; to continue leading the country and would step down no later than early February 
A Labour Party vote for a new leader will take place on Sunday; the party leader will be prime minister until the next general election. Ms Ardern&#39;s term as leader will conclude no later than Feb 7 and a general election will be held on Oct 14.
Kantar poll released in December had Labour at 33 per cent, down from 40 per cent at the start of 2022. That meant that even with traditional coalition partner the Green Party, polling at nine per cent, Labour could not hold a majority.
In addition, the party&#39;s previous tough Covid-19 rules, policies on water infrastructure, a move to 
tax methane emissions from cattle and sheep
 - hitting the country&#39;s dominant agricultural industry - and discussions around co-governance with Maori have sparked controversy.
Ms Ardern most likely stepped down to 
give the Labour Party a chance to refresh
 and reposition itself ahead of an election in October, experts said.
Here are four Labour party lawmakers who could become prime minister:
A veteran parliamentarian of 26 years, Nanaia Mahuta became New Zealand&#39;s first female foreign minister after the 2020 election victory.
The 52-year-old has used her role to advocate a diplomatic middle ground for Pacific nations caught between the United States and China, saying late last year that the region is not &#34;altogether comfortable with either superpower&#34;.
With a traditional facial tattoo that celebrates her Maori heritage, Ms Mahuta has long championed Maori causes as a tribal member of Waikato-Tainui, Ngāti Maniapoto and Ngāti Manu. She is the daughter of Sir Robert Mahuta, the adopted brother of the late Maori queen and respected Maori elder.
Ms Mahuta has also held the local government portfolio and pushed through controversial legislation to change the ownership structure of the country&#39;s water infrastructure.
Using the Maori name for New Zealand, she said: “I want to acknowledge the leadership of Jacinda Ardern and the contribution she has made to ensure a more tolerant and inclusive Aotearoa NZ at a time when so many challenges confronted her.
“She has led with grace, kindness and decisiveness. Thank you.” 
First elected to parliament for the Labour Party in 2008, Chris Hipkins became a household name fronting the government&#39;s response to the pandemic after being appointed minister for Covid-19 in November 2020.
Leading a response that was hailed around the world for leaving the country virus free for the first half of 2021, criticism grew over harsh lockdowns as officials struggled to control a Delta outbreak that began in August 2021. The 44-year-old later said quarantine measures should have been scaled back earlier.
Having built a reputation for competence, Mr Hipkins became minister for police in mid-2022 amid a crime wave. He is also minister for education, public service and serves as leader of the house.
He said: “Jacinda has been a voice of calm, kind reassurance and strength. I can think of no better person to have led us through the past five and a half years and I totally respect her decision to stand aside.”
Mr Hipkins held several roles in politics before joining parliament. He was senior adviser to two education ministers and served in the office of Helen Clark, the former prime minister.
Kiri Allan, New Zealand’s minister of justice, would become the country&#39;s first prime minister of Maori descent, as well as the country’s first openly gay leader if elected.
The 39-year-old left school at 16 and worked at a KFC fast food restaurant.
She has previously criticised “tokenistic” use of the Maori language te reo at the department of conservation, where she was minister.
She said: “I encourage Te Reo use but in no way will I tolerate tokenistic use of reo by government agencies as an attempt to show government departments are culturally competent.”
Ms Allan, whose portfolio also includes disaster management, was diagnosed with stage 3 cervical cancer in 2021 on the same day a powerful earthquake struck off the country&#39;s coast, triggering tsunami warnings. She took a leave of absence to seek treatment before returning.
Ms Allan, a daughter of religious missionaries, has campaigned on LGBT issues and described her own experience of being subjected to “conversion therapy” imposed by her church when she was a teenager.
Before entering parliament in 2017, Ms Allan worked as a manager in the agriculture industry, and was heavily involved in new kiwi fruit developments. She has also practised commercial and public law in several areas of the country.
Michael Wood, 42, has swiftly scaled Labour party ranks since joining parliament in 2016 after a landslide by-election victory.
Mr Wood was elevated to minister of transport and workplace safety in 2020 after Jacinda Ardern&#39;s historic election, the best result for the Labour Party in half a century. He added immigration to his portfolio in a mid-2022 cabinet reshuffle.
Before becoming a member of parliament, he served on Auckland&#39;s city council. He also worked at the finance sector union.
Who do you think should replace Jacinda Ardern? Cast your vote using the tool below:
The candidates who could replace Jacinda Ardern
France considers £130bn ‘green tax’ on the super-rich to meet net zero
Ron DeSantis will enter race to be president during event with Elon Musk
Killer whales learn to sink yachts off Gibraltar
Putin’s vitriolic mouthpiece has love-twins born in the USA
Is global superstar Vinicius Junior finally forcing Spain to face its racism demons?
Iran ousts top security official over links to executed ‘British spy’ Alireza Akbari
