Friday evening news briefing: Terror alert at hospital
Good evening. A counter-terrorism investigation has been launched after a man carrying a gun and a suspect package was arrested inside the grounds of a hospital in Leeds. We also have the latest analysis from Ukraine, as Germany dashed hopes for the quick delivery of tanks by saying the decision could take a month.
| A 27-year-old man was arrested at around 5am on Friday on 
suspicion of firearms and explosives offences inside the grounds of St James&#39;s hospital in Leeds
 writes that it is understood the suspect was arrested close to the hospital&#39;s maternity unit. Part of the hospital had to be evacuated and bomb disposal teams from the British Army were drafted in. Some patients were 
evacuated while experts from the Army and counter-terror police investigated
Zahawi &#39;paid penalty to settle tax bill worth millions&#39;
PM seatbelt investigation a &#39;waste of resources&#39;, says MP
Inferno as school bus goes up in flames
The big story: No decision on &#39;releasing the leopards&#39;
There is one question everyone wants answering on the war in Ukraine: 
Only he can approve the export
 of Leopard II tanks held by Germany and its allies to Kyiv. Publicly, Mr Scholz has expressed fears that by putting German tanks on the battlefield, Berlin would be going it alone. 
there is another worry in the German capital,
 writes our Brussels correspondent 
. After breaking away from decades of cosy relations with Moscow last year, there is a reluctance to unilaterally escalate the war in Ukraine.
 There are fears that the move could prompt Vladimir Putin to launch wider reprisals against Kyiv or mainland Europe. There is also a sense that 
Berlin has still yet to come to terms with its past history
, especially surrounding its role in triggering two world wars. As a result, Germany does not want to be seen as the main aggressor in Europe&#39;s biggest conflict since 1945.
Indeed, Germany dashed hopes for a quick delivery of tanks to Ukraine 
by saying on Friday that the decision could take &#34;a month
Boris Pistorius, the defence minister, said that allies had discussed the subject at the meeting of his counterparts at Ramstein airbase. He said there were &#34;good reasons for, good against&#34;, and that a decision could be &#34;made in a week, in a month, or in a day&#34;. The newly appointed minister said he had ordered the defence ministry to audit the stocks of Leopard tanks. 
It was unclear if Berlin would agree to allow other nations to press ahead by granting them export licenses for the Leopard IIs in their arsenal. Meanwhile, Lloyd Austin, the US secretary of defence, thanked Britain for its commitment of tanks to Ukraine, as 
he noted the reluctance of other allies to follow suit
Britain’s decision to send 14 Challenger II tanks was meant to give Mr Scholz the political space to at least sign the export licences. But neither Joe Biden nor Rishi Sunak can make the choice for him. 
 writes that behind the leopards looms an even bigger question: Does Germany - 
or the West in general - really want Ukraine to win the war? And if so, how?
Ever since the war began, Western officials have tip-toed around the question of how it ends. The eloquent non-answer favoured by Western diplomats is that it is up to Ukraine to decide what victory looks like. This, as many of them will happily acknowledge in private, is a cop-out - 
following Western sanctions in response to Putin&#39;s war
, according to the former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard professor, said the country is headed towards being a new Cuba, Venezuela or &#34;a giant Iran&#34;. 
Mr Rogoff also said the West needs to think about 
imposing secondary sanctions on the Kremlin
. In all, 39 countries are imposing sanctions on Russia, with the country also facing a cap on the price of its oil from the G7 nations and the EU. Mr Rogoff said 
sanctions alone are not enough to win the war, but said &#34;you have to stay the course&#34;
Starmer already laying groundwork for a deal with SNP
Ardern turned New Zealand into a basket case
Alec Baldwin’s Hollywood career was already over
Competent Rishi a mirage dissolving in front of our eyes
Decades of broken NHS promises have left staff demoralised
World news: Romania extends Tate&#39;s detention
Andrew Tate and his brother will remain in Romanian custody 
for 30 more days after a judge granted prosecutors another request to extend their detention
 until February 27. Mr Tate and his brother Tristan are under investigation over allegations of sexual assault and exploitation. The pair deny the allegations against them. Mr Tate, 36, a former Big Brother contestant who has amassed more than four million followers on Twitter with provocative messages and misogynistic views, was initially detained on December 29 
at his home in a suburb of Bucharest along with his brother
Opera designer Charles Edwards: ‘It costs as much to build a set as it does to build a house’
Ahead of his hotly awaited Tristan und Isolde for Grange Park, the celebrated designer explains why the art form is entering a new era
Sport news: Father of ball-boy joins curfew debate
The father of an Australian Open ball-boy has called for a curfew to protect young teenagers from the strain of extreme late-night finishes after 
Andy Murray’s win over Thanasi Kokkinakis
. Children as young as 13 were working on Margaret Court Arena 
as Murray battled through the longest match of his career, reports 
. Damien Saunder, the president of Bendigo Tennis Club, told Telegraph Sport about his 
15-year-old son Flynn’s experience on Rod Laver Arena last year.
The reason our world leaders suddenly have such short shelf lives
Groping, misogyny and rape jokes: The reality of being a woman in the police force
How beach huts went from 1950s cheap holiday to ultimate wealth symbol
Business news: Google owner axes 12,000 staff
latest tech giant to axe staff numbers amid a slowdown in the world economy
. The cuts, representing about 6pc of its global workforce, were revealed in an email to staff by chief executive Sundar Pichai. He said he took &#34;full responsibility for the decisions that led us here&#34;. Meanwhile,
 reports how data-powered art and music have 
opened up a legal minefield in the entertainment industry
How to avoid soaring car hire prices 
| Last summer saw a serious car hire crisis in many key holiday destinations. A surge in post-pandemic bookings and a collapse in the number of rental vehicles available pushed prices to record highs. Here are our top tips at 
avoiding the highest prices when it comes to hiring a car this summer
Travel Man: 48 Hours in Dublin, Channel 4, 8.30pm
William Sitwell reviews Mount St, London
Why Italian men are masters of winter style
And finally... for this evening&#39;s downtime
Forget France and Italy – the Bulgarian riviera is the only one you need 
| Look beyond Bulgaria’s mountains, monasteries and those budget-friendly ski resorts, and you’ll find nearly 250 miles of sun-drenched coastline, 
studded with a seemingly never-ending succession of sandy beaches
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email, 
sign up to the Front Page newsletter here
 . For two-minute audio updates, try 
 - on podcasts and smart speakers.
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
Parkrun women&#39;s record held by transgender attempted murderer
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Prince Harry had no right to intervene in fight to pay for police protection, says judge
Killer of Nikki Allan, seven, to serve at least 29 years in prison
Baroness Falkner determined to fight attempted coup by &#39;young, liberal civil servants&#39;
