Thursday evening news briefing: How council tax bills are rising
Good evening. Council tax bills are set to surge past £2,400 for thousands, as calls grow from Tory MPs to bring forward tax cuts. However, Rishi Sunak isn&#39;t among their number as he said people understand why taxes cannot be cut as they&#39;re not &#34;idiots&#34;. We also have reaction from Andy Murray&#39;s early-hours Australian Open epic.
| Boris Johnson has compared Vladimir Putin to 
with threats of using nuclear weapons. Speaking on a panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos, the former prime minister said the Russian President &#34;wants us to think about&#34; the potential for nuclear weapons to be unleashed but that &#34;he&#39;s never going to do it&#34;. Meanwhile, Ben Wallace has announced that the 
UK plans to send 600 Brimstone missiles to Ukraine
Prince of Wales&#39;s popularity plunges after Harry memoir
British actor Julian Sands named as missing hiker
Further yellow warnings issued for ice
Constance Marten&#39;s father issues plea for safe return
The big story: Council tax bills surge past £2,400
In news that will do little to lift the cost of living gloom, thousands of council tax payers now face paying 
average rates of more than £2,400 from April
. Rutland County Council - already England’s most expensive area for council tax - has announced it is planning to increase its bills by five per cent, the maximum amount allowed. 
 and the TaxPayers’ Alliance found that the vast majority of districts are facing
 Band D council tax bills in excess of £2,000 next year
. The Telegraph analysis suggests that, across the country, a total of 20 districts could be on course to setting Band D bills in excess of £2,300. In his autumn statement, the Chancellor said local authorities would be able to put up bills by three per cent. 
Those councils which cover social care - county councils and unitary authorities - were also told they could add a further two per cent, making a total increase of five per cent for these authorities. Local authorities which want to increase bills by a higher amount must hold a local referendum, but the likelihood of these being rejected means five per cent is the effective maximum.
Town halls are making their decisions on rates in the next few weeks. Our deputy political editor 
 writes that if all areas put up council tax by the maximum amount - which they are expected to do thanks to soaring inflation - 
then there would be 255 districts paying more than this, or 83 per cent of the total
That is up from 171 last year and 104 the year before. Simon Clarke, the former levelling-up secretary, urged local authorities to hold off from increasing council tax bills in April. He said: “Clearly Conservative authorities should be looking at all available options - including radical ones like sharing back office services - before increasing the burden on their constituents.”
Immediate tax cuts seem somewhat unlikely after the Prime Minister suggested that 
people understand why he cannot cut taxes at the moment because they are not &#34;idiots&#34;
Rishi Sunak said he &#34;wished&#34; he could cut taxes &#34;tomorrow&#34; but the current state of the public finances meant he is unable to. There were reports earlier this week that Jeremy Hunt, the Chancellor, is planning a &#34;slimmed down&#34; Budget in March with no immediate tax cuts. 
Asked about the reports during a Q&amp;A session in Morecambe today, Mr Sunak said: &#34;You are not idiots, you know what has happened. We had a massive pandemic for two years... then we have got this war going on which is having an enormous impact on inflation and interest rates.&#34; 
The Prime Minister also admitted a “brief error of judgment” 
in removing his seatbelt to film a social media video while a passenger in a car
There was some good news for household finances, however, as energy bills were forecast to drop 
by up to £600 more than previously expected this summer
 as a result of falling wholesale prices, in a boost for households and the Government. Cornwall Insight analysts say they now expect the annual price cap to fall to £3,208 in April and then £2,200 between July and December. 
That compares to their previous predictions at the start of January of £3,545 for April and £2,800-£2,835 between July and September. 
writes that the actual level of the price cap will 
depend on wholesale prices over coming months
Poor Jacinda Ardern, defeated by her own vanity
Our strikes are bad, but at least we’re not the French
With Ardern finished, Nicola Sturgeon is surely next
World news: What went wrong for Jacinda Ardern
Jacina Ardern promised a new era of kinder, more progressive politics but will be 
remembered for imposing one of the world’s harshest lockdowns
. For her critics, Ms Ardern epitomised the worst of woke politics, but even her supporters on the Left will now look back on her leadership as an era of missed opportunity. The Prime Minister of New Zealand became one of the world’s most popular politicians after becoming the youngest female head of government in 2017 at the age of 37. But her failed zero Covid policy
 badly hurt her standing at home and doubtless contributed to her decision to quit
Novelist Kathryn Scanlan: ‘If you’re paying attention, reality can be very strange’
Regarded as one of the most remarkable modern literary talents in America, the 42-year-old writer discusses her latest work
Sport news: Andy Murray wins Australian Open epic
Andy Murray soldiered deep into the night to 
conjure another extraordinary win at the Australian Open
. Australian Thanasi Kokkinakis served for victory at 5-3 in the third set of their second-round encounter on a rowdy, partisan Margaret Court Arena only for Murray to show once again that his greatest asset is a stubborn refusal to lose. The 35-year-old, who had battled for nearly five hours to upset Matteo Berrettini on Tuesday,
 forced a deciding set and finally prevailed 4-6 6-7 (4) 7-6 (5) 6-3 7-5 at 4.05am
. At five hours and 45 minutes, it was the longest match of Murray&#39;s whole career.
Why classic music’s ‘culture of fear’ is much worse than Tár
‘The Taliban want to kill me – but I won’t stop teaching Afghan girls’
Why the ‘Jewish treachery’ of All Quiet on the Western Front drove Joseph Goebbels mad
Business news: RMT offered ‘best and final’ pay rise
Train operators have made a 9pc “best and final offer” to the Rail, Maritime and Transport workers union (RMT) in a
 deal that drops the requirement to scrap on-board guards
. The Rail Delivery Group said workers would receive a 5pc pay increase backdated for 2022 and a 4pc rise in 2023. Crucially, a demand for the RMT to accept a condition of “driver-only operation” has been dropped. 
 writes that it confirms a report by the Telegraph last week that the condition – a “red line” for the union – was set to be removed. Train operators are hoping the latest offer will 
prove a breakthrough in talks and avoid further strike action from RMT members
The hidden corners of Britain the travel experts are visiting in 2023 
| Still undecided on where to go in 2023? Don’t turn to Netflix or a clueless social media influencer for your inspiration – follow the advice of Telegraph Travel’s in-house experts. Here, a dozen of our editors and writers reveal the 
lesser-known corners of the UK where they’ll be spending their time and money this year
Is William Byrd England’s greatest composer?
Why every woman needs a sweater vest in her life
And finally... for this evening&#39;s downtime
22 of the best places to see snowdrops in Britain 
| The first snowdrops of the season have already been spotted in parts of the country, bringing joy to frosty winter walks. Here, we list the top spots for finding snowdrops around the UK – 
in magnificent National Trust gardens, tucked-away forests, and the grounds of spectacular stately homes
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email, 
sign up to the Front Page newsletter here
 . For two-minute audio updates, try 
 - on podcasts and smart speakers.
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
Parkrun women&#39;s record held by transgender attempted murderer
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Prince Harry had no right to intervene in fight to pay for police protection, says judge
Killer of Nikki Allan, seven, to serve at least 29 years in prison
Baroness Falkner determined to fight attempted coup by &#39;young, liberal civil servants&#39;
