How HMRC pushes retirees into risky investments
If you happen to be relatively wealthy and planning for retirement, a lot of tax-efficient avenues have been closed off to you in the past decade. The state pension has been increased to record highs by the triple lock while some of the options for private income have disappeared, 
with Jeremy Hunt’s Autumn Statement providing the final twist of the fiscal knife.
One of the few opportunities to emerge unscathed are venture capital trusts, which are specialised tax-advantaged funds that invest in smaller businesses. 
While the Chancellor has announced cuts to the dividend and capital gains tax allowances,
 he “sees the value” of the VCT tax breaks. One expert says he believes that successive governments have “definitely” pushed investors – especially those considering retirement – in the direction of VCTs.
But the clue is in the name – these are volatile investments. Some have seen their value fall by three quarters in the past year, so investors without the stomach for sudden lurches are likely to get seasick. For prospective retirees, though, economic gravity is pulling in their direction.
According to Nicholas Hyett of Wealth Club, a VCT broker, the average investor in these funds is 61 and thinking ahead to their retirement income. They are relatively well off and are already making full use of their annual £40,000 pension allowance and possibly their £20,000 Isa allowance. However, Hyett pushes back against the idea that they are all former investment bankers.
“Our clients include the more senior civil servants, head teachers, doctors, lawyers,” he says. “Wealthy professionals in both the public and private sectors are all in the position where they might hit the lifetime allowance on their pension.”
The amount you can have tax-free in a pension pot is frozen at £1,073,100 until April 2026,
 a limit that has been almost halved over the past 11 years. This lifetime allowance will snare more people as time goes on, meaning a bigger tax take for the Exchequer. 
The advantage of VCTs is that you can invest up to £200,000 annually with 30pc income tax relief, if the funds are held for five years, plus tax-free capital gains and dividends.
Nick Bird of Octopus Investments, a VCT manager, says these tax breaks have pushed the trusts into the mainstream. In meetings with financial advisers he used to be told they would be appropriate only for a handful of clients. “I see those same advisers now and ask ‘who’s this relevant for?,’” he said. “And actually that’s now 10, 20, 30, 40 clients.”
The money invested in VCTs has increased in tandem. In 2021-22 they attracted a record £1.1bn, although the figure has dipped slightly this year.
One investor attracted by the tax breaks is Mike Ridyard, 63, who bought his first VCT as he contemplated retirement in his mid-50s. He describes himself as a “plodder” but says he has never lost money on his 22 funds.
Mr Ridyard, a former engineer, began adding VCTs to his portfolio after going to a talk about “defending yourself against HMRC” a few years ago.
“I think they are playing politics with what they can get away with,” he says. “People don’t mind paying tax as long as it’s fair but if you talk to successful people they don’t think they’ve been gifted a good salary. They think they’ve worked very hard for it.”
In a country whose tax burden has hit its highest level for 70 years,
 any relief is welcome. The risks, though, are significant for those who chase the tax breaks without understanding thoroughly what they are buying. The truth is that the funds will inevitably invest in companies that fail, so they need to offset these losses with gains elsewhere.
According to the Association of Investment Companies, the trade body for investment trusts, the average VCT has lost 5.6pc in a year but risen by 22.6pc and 30.1pc over three years and five years. Within those averages, though, there is a huge range of returns. Over the past five years some VCTs have fallen by almost 60pc while others have almost doubled in value.
Mr Ridyard criticises those who do not understand the shares they buy and panic-sell when their value drops. He has sold only one VCT, from the biotechnology sector, which he bought for a hefty discount on the stock market.
“It wasn’t really doing very well,” Mr Ridyard says. “You usually come a cropper if you go into biotech. If you’d subscribed at the beginning you’d have lost a lot of money.”
With other options sealed off, prospective retirees with money to spare have found themselves taking the VCT route by default. Their tax breaks have survived so far because they provide capital for small businesses to grow. But who knows how long VCTs will be safe from the taxman?
“Legislation can always change,” Bird says. “If I were putting another risk warning on these things, of course legislation can always change.”
Devon and Cornwall demand powers to quadruple council tax on second homes
How house prices are calculated – and how to increase the value of your home
Airport car park charges soar 260pc
The six funds to invest in if you want to back Britain
Michael Gove backtracks on renter reforms after just a week
