UK’s global influence declines in wake of foreign aid cuts, report warns
The UK’s ability to defend democracy and human rights internationally has deteriorated, a major report has found, due to budget cuts and the erosion of its own democratic fabric. 
On Wednesday, the aid watchdog released a review scrutinising the quality of UK development assistance. It warned Britain’s global influence has declined – and that its future projects are in doubt. 
The Independent Commission for Aid Impact (ICAI)  found the UK’s international democratic and human rights work has been 
 with expenditure reduced by 33 per cent in 2020.
The rapid turnover of UK government ministers since 2015 has also resulted in the lack of a clear strategy, it said, with ambitions changing depending on the “preferences of different ministers”. 
“In 2019 alone, [the Department for International Development] had three secretaries of state and [Foreign and Commonwealth Office] two foreign secretaries, which contributed to some strategic drift from that time onwards, as no strategic direction was agreed for long enough to be operationalised,” the aid watchdog said.
Responding to the findings, Human Rights Watch (HRW) said the UK is facing its own “full-throttled attack” on human rights and moving “towards an autocracy” in which even the Suffragettes would have been prevented from protesting. 
“What legitimacy does the UK government have to speak to countries like China and Iran [about human rights], when domestically it is stripping away those very rights?”said Yasmine Ahmed, the UK Director of Human Rights Watch in an exclusive interview with the Telegraph.
HRW was cited in the ICAI report as being a source used by the British government to assess democracy and human rights situations abroad.
Ahmed said that the UK is “extinguishing the very rights we have” by repealing the Human Rights Act, and using the same justifications as countries like China and Russia to restrict protests.
She pointed to Rishi Sunak’s public order crackdown, in which police in England and Wales are to be given powers to shut down protests before any disruption begins.
“China, Russia and the junta in Myanmar say it’s necessary to use these measures to keep order. That’s the very same reason the UK Government is claiming to restrict the right to protest in the UK,” Ahmed said. “These Draconian measures are trying to muzzle the people that are trying to hold the Government to account.”
“The laws on protest would restrict most, if not all, the protests undertaken by the Suffragettes,” she added. “The people of the UK should have a very, very serious reflection about if this is the direction they want to go in.”
The report comes at a time when, globally, democracy and human rights are under increasing pressure. 
The past 16 years have seen democracy backslide, with more countries becoming authoritarian than democratising. 
Seventy per cent of the world’s population now live in countries where governments can be considered authoritarian.
“A rise in authoritarianism since 2006 has entirely reversed the wave of democratisation that followed the end of the Cold War,” read the ICAI report.
The number of liberal democracies in the world peaked at 42 in 2012 and has now fallen to 34, representing 13 per cent of the world’s population. Meanwhile, the share of the global population living in countries that are becoming less democratic has increased from five per cent in 2011 to 36 per cent in 2021.
In Pakistan, during a period of democratic backsliding, growing civil society and media restrictions and increasingly populist politics, the UK government decided to deprioritise its democracy objectives, the report noted. 
The ICAI also found that the UK government was “risk averse” compared to other countries when it came to assisting journalists and human rights defenders under threat from government repression. “This was in part because of the fear of damaging its relationships with partner governments,” it said.
Despite the issues raised, the ICAI also praised the UK for its focus on inclusion, which have helped improve the rights for women, people with a disability, and, to a lesser extent, ethnic or religious minorities and LGBT&#43; people.
It added that the UK’s work has helped improve the effectiveness and inclusiveness of elections, political parties and parliaments in” several countries”.
An FCDO spokesperson told the Telegraph: “The UK is committed to a world where democracy and freedoms can thrive and where autocracy is challenged. We put human rights at the heart of what we do.
“Just last month the UK announced a package of sanctions targeting those involved in serious human rights abuses and violations, and serious corruption. The UK has also supported Special Sessions of the UN Human Rights Council on Ukraine, Afghanistan and Iran.”
Protect yourself and your family by learning more about 
What sewage secrets reveal about human health and disease
Giving aid to poorer countries helps prevent migration to UK, says minister
How AI is learning to read the human mind
Taliban repression of Afghan women is form of apartheid, says Nelson Mandela widow Graça Machel
Guyana school fire: At least 19 children dead in dormitory blaze
Cambodia chases herd immunity in dogs to stamp out rabies
