The gentle Benedict XVI taught that the Church should change the world, not the other way around
Never has there been such a disconnect between the public perception of a man and the human reality. Joseph Ratzinger, otherwise known as 
, was portrayed by his critics in the media and church as a reactionary “Rottweiler”.
In private he was a fan of cats, showing kindness to the strays in Rome - a shy man, an accomplished pianist who would’ve preferred to write books than be Pope. His time in office was coloured by controversy; his resignation was a study in humility. But what Benedict will be chiefly 
 in centuries to come was his contribution to the world of ideas, his attempt to make “God credible” to modern man.
Born in Bavaria in 1927, much was later made of the fact that the first German pope in 1,000 years was enrolled in the Hitler Youth. It certainly wasn&#39;t by choice. His family were anti-Nazi, which is why his father was demoted as a policeman. In opposition to this revolutionary movement with its fake pagan rituals, the Church seemed to Benedict to be ancient, authentic – “not always logical” but “wonderful… like one’s home.”
He entered seminary, was ordained in 1951 and settled down to an academic career, attending the reforming Vatican II council in Rome in the early 1960s as a keen supporter. Politically, Benedict was always essentially liberal: he valued the separation of church and state. He leant towards social democracy; the environment, he said, must be protected.
But as the Sixties wore on, Benedict came face-to-face with an earlier incarnation of “woke” – the far-Left on campus. Even the theology department seemed determined to jettison worship of God and replace it with worship of man. Marxism, he argued, maintained religious fervor but minus the mercy, resulting in totalitarianism. “Reason is inherently fragile”: a society that depends purely upon politics to decide what is right or wrong could, like Germany in the 1930s, persuade itself to do terrible things.
This was the context to Benedict’s Vatican career, after he was made a cardinal in 1977 and was appointed head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith by John Paul II in 1981 – the body in charge of policing theology. Some Catholics wanted to shrug off tradition; others, like Benedict, saw this as undesirable and impossible. He held the line on abortion, contraception and the ordination of women, and cracked down on Left-wing liberation theology. He clearly did not relish the role of enforcer, however, because he asked if he could retire when he turned 70 and serve as an archivist. When John Paul II died in 2005, and the conclave voted for a successor, Benedict prayed to God not to make it him. 
At his inaugural Mass, Benedict urged his audience to make a friend of Jesus, laying out an intelligible, personal faith that reached its zenith in the publication of his biography of Christ. It had relevance, too, for the non-believer. The West, he warned during his pontificate, lacks “self-love. All that it sees in its own history is the despicable and the destructive”.
At war with the past, rejecting religious tradition, we risk sliding into moral relativism and decline, he said. Nowhere is this more evident than within those churches suffering from “fatigue”. Challenged by science and sexual liberation, many of them have chosen to imitate society in order to remain relevant. Benedict, on the other hand, believed that Christians should engage with modernity but not be changed by it, for “in a decaying world [faith] is the only thing left to give shape to life.” This can be expressed through beauty: Benedict lifted onerous restrictions on the use of the prayerful Latin Mass, discouraged since Vatican II.
To those who reply that this emphasis upon passionate faith contradicts reason, Benedict replied that the very thing that defines Europe is the blending of faith and reason in the marriage between Christianity and Greek philosophy. The Christian God would never ask us to do anything unreasonable. At his famous Regensburg lecture in 2006, he claimed that this contrasts with Islam, that Allah is not bound by rationality. His speech was interpreted unfairly to 
imply that Islam is inherently violent
 – and, ironically, fanatical Muslims responded with violence. Churches were attacked. A nun was murdered.
There’s no denying that Benedict, hampered by poor health, his gentle personality and Vatican politics, was increasingly overwhelmed by the task of being Pope in an era of intense media scrutiny. And however much he wished to share Jesus&#39; message, what millions wanted was decisive action on child abuse – a task that by his own later admission, he failed. Having seen how paralysed the Vatican was by John Paul II’s ill-health, he chose to step down in 2013, making him the first pope to resign since 1415.
Paradoxically, this most “conservative” of popes triggered a sharp adaptation to the reality of modern life – that we are living longer and cannot serve competently right up to the very end – and proved that such an initiative could work if the intention is honourable. Even as Pope Francis contradicted some of his papal legacy, Benedict remained largely silent, respecting his successor’s authority. The interesting question is whether or not Francis will follow suit, and if this is the future for monarchies across the world.
The year ends with the loss of two heads of two churches, Benedict XVI and 
. Both embodied service. Both had a faith that in its uncomplicated conviction might appear to belong to another age, on the brink of extinction. But their witness will have inspired admiration, even conversion. The seminaries are full of admirers of Benedict
He never raged against the dying of the light. In 1969, Benedict predicted in a radio address that the Christian church would become smaller and poorer, but also &#34;more spiritual&#34;. Secular society might be richer but &#34;more lonely&#34;, and it will find in this &#34;little flock of believers&#34; something new: the faith, cherished and preserved.
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
Parkrun women&#39;s record held by transgender attempted murderer
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Prince Harry had no right to intervene in fight to pay for police protection, says judge
Killer of Nikki Allan, seven, to serve at least 29 years in prison
Baroness Falkner determined to fight attempted coup by &#39;young, liberal civil servants&#39;
