Last year, one million older people in the UK said they would be eating dinner alone on Christmas Day. By 2026, it’s predicted that about two million older people will feel persistently lonely, starved of the conversation, company and companionship that many of us take for granted. And with loneliness comes a raft of other problems; studies have shown that loneliness and isolation is as bad for you as obesity and smoking, and puts you at a greater risk of dementia. 
To help combat all of this, 
, which is one of the Telegraph’s chosen charities for this year’s Christmas appeal, runs a telephone friendship service, matching over-60s with a friendly volunteer for a weekly chat over the phone. The aim is simple – to help alleviate the epidemic of loneliness that is particularly rampant among our older people. 
“We’ve probably all had moments where we’ve felt lonely, but it’s hard to imagine feeling like that day after day, month after month, even year after year,” says Caroline Abrahams, charity director at Age UK. “But sadly that’s the reality for so many older people who through no fault of their own, find themselves alone and isolated. Knowing a friendly voice will be at the end of the phone can really feel like a lifeline, and make a huge difference to an older person’s mental health and sense of wellbeing.”
‘Listening to someone else’s life enriches you’
Sheila, 77, a retired schoolteacher, has been receiving weekly calls from Rianne, 31, for over two years. Having suffered polio as a little girl, Sheila has spent her later years confined to a wheelchair and has lived alone, with her cat, in rural East Anglia since her husband died in 2007.
I was a bit nervous before my first call with Rianne but I needn’t have been. We swapped details about our families and our lives and since then, we’ve become real friends. It really meant a lot to have someone to talk to through the pandemic. Back in 2019, my funding for at-home care was withdrawn by the council – we still don’t understand why – and Age UK was very helpful. They suggested the friendship call when I told them how lonely I was feeling. 
My daughter visits often and video calls me every night, but other than that, I don’t get to see many people because of my mobility issues. I’m confined to a wheelchair. Carers come in twice a week to help me with showering and some of the heavy housework, but other than that, I’m alone. I’m an avid reader – that’s how I pass the time – but the loneliness can be awful. When you live with someone and you have a problem, you have someone to talk it through with, who is as concerned as you are. But when you’re alone and things go wrong, nobody quite understands it – problems can feel overwhelming. 
Talking to Rianne is something I really look forward to all week – a breath of fresh air. We talk about everything – politics, theatre, her work, books we’ve read. I love hearing about her various holidays – she had some weddings abroad over the summer. Her sister has just had a baby and I’ve enjoyed all the excitement from that. Listening to someone else’s life enriches you and gives you something positive to focus on. 
At the moment, I’m really worried about the cost of living. Normally I would have my heating on constantly at this time of year, but instead I’m only switching it on for an hour in the morning and an hour at night. Because of my condition and not being able to move around, I get very cold. My legs are paralysed, but I still have the feeling in them so they can be very painful. I sit with a hot water bottle and lots of blankets – I’m on morphine three times a day, but the pain is still there. Speaking to Rianne helps to take my mind off all that. At the beginning, I had no expectation of how the phone calls would go, but it’s wonderful that it’s led to a genuine friendship. Rianne helps me a lot – if anyone is feeling lonely, I’d encourage them to sign up.
‘It’s never felt like a chore. I think of her as family’ 
Rianne, 31, works as a communications manager and lives in London with a friend. She was inspired to volunteer when the pandemic struck and made her think about how her grandfather would have coped with the isolation of lockdown. He had recently passed away and she was drawn to the idea of befriending an older person. 
Sheila doesn’t share that much about her loneliness – in fact, she’s the most strong and resilient person I know. She never lets her mobility issues get her down. Recently, she was due to see a friend and at the last minute she couldn’t go because the venue didn’t have wheelchair access. I really felt for her because those dates in the diary mean a lot to her. Our initial match was based on us having shared interests – reading, gardening and having a cat. That gives you something to start with but the friendship between us grew very easily, and I get so much from our conversations. 
She’s full of words of wisdom and reassurance – she has a good way of putting things in perspective. I’m single, but she’ll ask how that side of things is going and tell me about her late husband. She speaks about him with such joy that it makes me not want to settle for anything less than they had. She often says: “Get yourself out there – there’s someone for everyone.” 
We started off speaking once a week, but now I’ll often call her on a Saturday morning, too. We catch up on what’s happened that week or any big events – when the Queen died, it was really fascinating to hear her memories. She’s full of advice – recently she talked me through how to re-pot a houseplant that was dying and she gave me step-by-step instructions for making a quiche for the first time. 
Every few months, I send her a bundle of photographs so she can see what we’ve been chatting about – weddings, and my family and friends. Just recently, I received my first photograph of Sheila and I became teary when I opened it. It was like seeing a member of my family for the first time – I couldn’t stop smiling. If you have the time to volunteer in this way, I’d say go for it. Calling Sheila is the highlight of my week – it’s never felt like a chore. It’s so nice to know you’re making a difference to someone else’s day, but equally, I’ve got so much out of hearing her experiences and her perspective. Sheila has become integral to my life – I think of her as part of my family.
The weekly friendship call: how to get involved
The Age UK advice line is a free and confidential service, open 365 days a year from 8am to 7pm. Call on 0800 678 1602.
Age UK is one of four charities supported by this year’s Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal. The others are Macmillan Cancer Support, RBLI and Action for Children. To make a donation, please visit 
 or call 0151 284 1927
Koran row imam suggested Muslims could be punished for celebrating Christmas
Royal Mail delivers only half of first-class post on time in Christmas run-up
Readers raise £726,000 for the annual Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal
There are still a few hours left to change someone&#39;s life
Older people need financial support more than ever – but bank closures have cut them adrift
