world reacts jacinda adern resignation new zealand pm
Media around the world praised Jacinda Ardern after she announced she would 
step down as New Zealand’s prime minister
, but also noted her popularity had fallen significantly and many voters wanted a change.
The 42-year-old will stand down less than three years after winning a landslide election to secure her second term in office.
a global figurehead among progressive politicians
 and was widely applauded for her displays of leadership and compassion, polls have suggested she is increasingly unpopular at home.
Singapore-based Channel News Asia said that while she is “internationally lauded, New Zealand wants a different leader”.
“An internationally acclaimed stateswoman in her own right, Ardern has adopted tough policies in a challenging time. Her government has successfully dealt with the Covid-19 crisis and managed a more balanced foreign policy.”
Yet the channel concluded that New Zealanders “are increasingly frustrated with high costs of living, rising interest rates, and concerns about crime, all domestic issues that require a different mindset than dealing with crises like COVID-19”.
people are looking for a new leader
The Japan Times, the country’s largest and oldest English-language daily, said Ms Ardern’s decision to resign showed her “characteristic modesty”.
Her leadership had “stood in such stark contrast to many of her boorish male counterparts”, the paper said.
“Here was a highly regarded - at home and on the world stage - and astute female politician vacating the top job on her own terms.
“She will be missed and her decision should be respected. It underscores the challenges of achieving diversity in politics and business. It’s not just about getting women there, but keeping them.
“We want politicians like Ardern to endure because they are the kind that change the narrative.”
Germany’s Süddeutsche Zeitung described Ms Ardern as “an exceptional leader with a special gift for building bridges” but pointed out that she was leaving office at a time when her popularity had begun to wane.
“Her tenure has been exhausting... but her exhaustion may just have something to do with the fact that 
New Zealand’s population has long since stopped supporting her
 the way it once did,” the newspaper said.
Germany’s Der Spiegel said her premiership had put New Zealand on the political map and questioned if Germans could name any of the country’s prior leaders.
It said for Germans the pacific nation was “a stunning tourist destination”, but that’s it.
Ms Ardern had changed all that: “Politicians and people across the world admired her... or were annoyed by her.”
The political magazine said the key to her success had been the way she “turned her apparent weakness into a strength” by showing vulnerability and thus being more relatable than other politicians.
France’s Le Monde wrote that the announcement “created a shock wave in the archipelago as it is rare for a leader to renounce power, especially considering the popularity of this 42-year-old leader”.
“Her calm, her determination and the quality of her leadership had earned her the designation, by a poll carried out in May 2020, as the most popular New Zealand head of government for a century and earned her ‘anti-Trump leader’ status on the international stage.”
“She showed that you could be a kind and competent leader and also head of a government and mother,” the paper quoted Jennifer Lees-Marshment, professor of political marketing at the University of Auckland.
“Most analysts believe that this decline in popularity weighed in the decision to hand over, even if it is not the main cause,” said the paper, citing family reasons.
Italy’s Corriere della Sera newspaper hailed Ms Ardern as “one of the most significant leaders in the history of New Zealand”.
The paper said that “the end of her mandate has an epochal, or at least generational, feel about it”.
But in the end she was just too “burnt out” to go on.
Spain’s El Mundo said that Ms Ardern will be remembered for bringing about a revival of her centre-left party in the 2017 elections, when no one thought she had a chance of winning and also becoming the second elected world leader to give birth while in office.
“She has shown her best side in managing the critical moments New Zealand has experienced in recent years, such as her performance after the eruption of the White Island volcano or the 2019 attack against two mosques in Christchurch,” the newspaper said, recalling that Ms Ardern had worn a hijab when meeting survivors and said the words, “They are us” when referring to the Muslim community.
Belgian daily Le Soir wrote that it was “very moved” by the announcement Ms Ardern was stepping down as prime minister.
Dutch-language De Standaard said the move was “unexpected”, highlighting her efforts to steer New Zealand through the coronavirus pandemic and the mosque shooting.
The New York Times proclaimed Ms Ardern “a hero of the global left”.
“To admirers, she became the sunny face of progressivism, and a welcome alternative to the politics represented by then-President Donald J. Trump in the United States,” the newspaper stated.
But in a separate analysis piece, the newspaper noted that bitter divisions over New Zealand’s Covid policies had “tarnished a liberal icon”.
The Washington Post described said her “empathetic style during several crises has been praised around the world”.
Justin Trudeau, Canadian prime minister, shared a photo of the pair walking together, thanking her for her friendship and “empathic, compassionate, strong, and steady leadership over these past several years.”
“The difference you have made is immeasurable,” he added.
, for your partnership and your friendship – and for your empathic, compassionate, strong, and steady leadership over these past several years. The difference you have made is immeasurable. I’m wishing you and your family nothing but the best, my friend. 
Australia’s prime minister, Anthony Albanese, said Ms Ardern had “shown the world how to lead with intellect and strength”.
“She has demonstrated that empathy and insight are powerful leadership qualities. Jacinda has been a fierce advocate for New Zealand, an inspiration to so many and a great friend to me.”
France considers £130bn ‘green tax’ on the super-rich to meet net zero
Ron DeSantis will enter race to be president during event with Elon Musk
Killer whales learn to sink yachts off Gibraltar
Putin’s vitriolic mouthpiece has love-twins born in the USA
Is global superstar Vinicius Junior finally forcing Spain to face its racism demons?
Iran ousts top security official over links to executed ‘British spy’ Alireza Akbari
