English taxpayers foot bill for Welsh government ‘ghost offices’
English taxpayers are bankrolling ghost government offices across Wales as nine in 10 of the country&#39;s civil servants work from home.
Some 5,287 people are contracted to work across the Welsh government’s 10 main offices, according to a recent response to a Freedom of Information Act request.
However, the figures show that the average daily attendance across the sites was just 549 people in September.
Despite the empty offices costing millions of pounds-a-year to retain, the Welsh first minister Mark Drakeford said there were no plans to offload empty space.
Jacob Rees-Mogg, Conservative MP for North Somerset and former business secretary told the Telegraph: “Taxpayers money ought to be used responsibly. Although it seems clear that working from home has led to lower quality public services, if for ideological reasons, the Welsh government encourages working from home, it ought to reduce its office accommodation.
“Otherwise empty space is being rented, heated and lit pointlessly which is treating taxpayers contemptuously. It is the most expensive way of delivering poor service.”
“Budgets are tight and families are being clobbered with sky high taxes, so politicians and officials must live within taxpayers&#39; means. Significant revenues can be raised for assets going to waste, easing the burden on hard pressed families.”
Mr Drakeford has said that the switch to working from home 
is one of the few good legacies of the coronavirus pandemic
. He has dismissed claims that returning to the office will drive up productivity.
A year ago the Labour first minister 
fined workers £60 for turning up to the office under a strict response to the Omicron variant
“We definitely here in Wales want to see a future in which people can blend times when they will work from home, times when they will be in the office. There is absolutely no case that says that people don&#39;t work hard unless they are under the gaze of a government,” Mr Drakeford said in May.
Like Scotland and Northern Ireland, Wales benefits from the Barnett Formula.  The device allocates spending according to population size rather than the amount each country needs.
Last year, Wales received a record £18bn from taxpayers. That meant people living in Wales received £120 for every £100 per person of equivalent UK Government spending in England.
In contrast to Wales, Westminster has sought to encourage people back to the office following the easing of Covid restrictions.
Rishi Sunak said a year ago that 
he doubted he would have had as successful a career in finance and then in politics had he started out working from home
He said: “I doubt I would have had those strong relationships if I was doing my summer internship or my first bit of my career over Teams and Zoom.&#34;
Meanwhile, Boris Johnson told the Daily Mail earlier this year: “My experience of working from home is you spend an awful lot of time making another cup of coffee and then, you know, getting up, walking very slowly to the fridge, hacking off a small piece of cheese, then walking very slowly back to your laptop and then forgetting what it was you’re doing,”
Mr Drakeford responded to Mr Johnson’s comments by saying “&#34;I think he&#39;s completely wrong. We take entirely the opposite view here in Wales.”
A spokesman for Mr Drakeford said: “Having the flexibility of office, remote and hybrid working brings benefits for local economies, businesses, individuals, and the environment. These flexibilities increase productivity, improve work life balance, and deliver less air and noise pollution.
“Our vision is to maximise the benefits of office, remote and hybrid working for our people and organisation. We want to support our staff to retain the benefits of remote-working while also enabling them to come together in an office environment to connect and collaborate in person.”
Elon Musk says Tesla will &#39;strongly consider&#39; building gigafactory in England
Kremlin gas profits plunge as tide turns in Putin’s energy war
Netflix to charge £5 for sharing passwords
Protesters attempt to storm stage as Shell AGM descends into chaos
Food producers are keeping prices high, says Andrew Bailey
Savers miss out on £70,000 at poorly performing pension funds
