Vietnam’s president Nguyen Xuan Phuc resigns amid Communist Party shakeup
Vietnam’s president has resigned amid an unprecedented shakeup of the ruling Communist Party, whose leader is consolidating power through an anti-corruption purge.
On Tuesday, the party’s central committee approved a request from Nguyen Xuan Phuc to step down as president – a largely ceremonial position – after he was blamed for “violations and wrongdoing” by officials previously under his control. He has also been ousted from the party’s central committee and Politburo.
It makes the 68-year-old, who was Vietnam’s prime minister between 2016 and 2021, the highest-ranking official to be targeted in a sweeping corruption crackdown under the current premier, Nguyen Phu Trong.
Analysts have said the “truly shocking” move represents the “Xi-isation of Vietnam”.
“This is not an ‘anti-corruption campaign’,” Bill Hayton, an associate fellow on the Asia-Pacific Programme at Chatham House, said on Twitter. “I don&#39;t doubt that the people who were fired were corrupt. But so is everyone at the top… the question is which people get fired for corruption and which don’t.”
Over the last few weeks, there has been widespread speculation that Phuc would be pushed out, after the two deputy prime ministers who served under him were ousted amid bribery investigations linked to scandals around repatriation flights and a manufacturer of Covid test kits.
But analysts say Trong – who is the party’s longest serving General Secretary, as well as the current prime minister – is using these cases and others to consolidate his own power base. Hayton suggested he is acting now because his “health is failing and he wants to secure his legacy while he can”.
Phil Robertson, deputy director of the Asia Division at Human Rights Watch, added: “This rapidly growing earthquake in Vietnam’s politics is truly shocking, with president Phuc being the first ever president to resign his position, though all indications are that he was fired.
“No one disputes that corruption has been rife in this one-party controlled system, but few believed… Trong would be able to exercise this kind of control,” he told the Telegraph.
Last year alone, 539 party members were prosecuted or “disciplined” over corruption charges and other “deliberate wrongdoings”. The party said this included ministers, top officials and diplomats, while police investigated 453 corruption cases – a 50 per cent jump from 2021.
According to HRW, there are also more than 150 political prisoners locked up in Vietnam.
Protect yourself and your family by learning more about 
What sewage secrets reveal about human health and disease
Giving aid to poorer countries helps prevent migration to UK, says minister
How AI is learning to read the human mind
Taliban repression of Afghan women is form of apartheid, says Nelson Mandela widow Graça Machel
Guyana school fire: At least 19 children dead in dormitory blaze
Cambodia chases herd immunity in dogs to stamp out rabies
