Why some countries welcome wearing facemasks and others don’t
With Covid, flu and other respiratory viruses spreading like wildfire throughout society, numerous health officials and experts have advocated for a return to mask-wearing in the UK – especially when feeling unwell.
Since the emergence of Covid, there have been countless research papers supporting and dismissing the benefits of wearing a mask.
The largest and most comprehensive study on mask effectiveness, published in December 2021, demonstrated that wearing masks does reduce Covid transmission.
Researchers from numerous American universities and health organisations recruited over 340,000 adults in 600 villages in Bangladesh. The trial resulted in a 30 per cent increase in mask-wearing and demonstrated a nine per cent reduction in Covid-19.
It also highlighted the value of low-cost surgical masks in protecting against Covid, which were shown to be almost as effective as high-cost, high-performance N95 or KF94 masks.
But despite the study’s findings, many people in the West remain uninterested.
Professor Yik-Ying Teo, an expert in public health at the National University of Singapore, and a member of the Reckitt Global Hygiene Institute Expert Panel, says the issue is dependent on “how leaders or policy makers make use of” the science.
“In many western communities, people see masks as an aberration, a symbol that things aren’t right in the world, and that they aren’t yet ‘back to normal’,” he said.
“Many see the mask mandate as invasive, and its removal as a cause for celebration and a universal flinging of masks into the past along with the rest of Covid-19.”
Professor David Halpern, a behavioural scientist and CEO of the UK’s Behavioural Insights Team, describes many people’s view of the pandemic and the resulting safety measures as a “nasty midsummer night’s dream”, the return to which would result in “genuine social and political resistance – though it also got us used to certain new behaviours”.
But for immunocompromised people, the elderly, or anyone who just does not want to catch an airborne disease, the backlash to mask-wearing in the West is of significant concern.
Arguably, the response in the UK was tempered to a great extent by behavioural scientists. Prof Halpern’s team had success in increasing mask-wearing in the UK’s sceptical environment through “nudge” tactics, such as the ‘Hands, Face, Space’ slogan. It was also based on evidence that masks worked to reduce transmission, such as a study testing the efficacy of clinical and home-made masks at Porton Down, the UK government laboratory.
This message directed actions towards hygiene, mask-wearing and social distancing – a far more effective message than the fear-based ‘Stay Alert’ slogan. Indeed, Halpern argues that “in many places, certainly for key periods of the pandemic … informal social pressure really started to operate quite strongly on people to wear masks.”
However, this pressure did not last. Mask-wearing in the UK “did decay pretty rapidly once it looked like covid was waning”, according to Prof Halpern, and has resulted in a society that, despite another rise in Covid cases, is not choosing to wear masks.
According to a 2022 Lancet Commission report, public opposition “reflects a lack of social trust, low confidence in government advice, inconsistency of government advice, low health literacy, lack of sufficient behavioural-change interventions, and extensive misinformation and disinformation campaigns on social media.”
We can see evidence for all of these throughout the pandemic. However, breaking down these issues enough to understand exactly where and how each factor impacted a certain country, region, or individual’s opposition to wearing a mask is more complicated.
In the Bangladesh study, researchers tried several different techniques to encourage mask wearing, including providing information on its importance, involving religious and community leaders, and distributing masks in people’s homes, places of worship, and markets.
Through these strategies, there was a 30 per cent increase in mask wearing, and though many still chose not to wear masks, there is no report of violent refusal – as seen in a few cases in the West.
However, this kind of trial – and indeed these methods for encouraging mask usage – would have been thoroughly unsuccessful elsewhere.
“It was important to do it in Bangladesh because they didn&#39;t have the political affiliations with masks that were present in many high-end countries,” said Laura Kwong, an associate professor, one of the trial’s lead researchers. “We do not think we&#39;d be able to do such a study in an area where mask wearing was politically charged.”
Politicisation of mask-wearing was prominent during the pandemic, especially in several European countries and the US, where President Donald Trump weaponised the mask narrative in an attempt to bolster his election hopes.
In the UK, behavioural scientists had to push back against a government leadership that saw wearing masks as, in some cases, “nonsensical”.
Prof Halpern describes the effort taken to convince Boris Johnson, then Prime Minister, 
“We did share with him a slide pack at one point. It had a series of images of pretty much every single world leader wearing a mask, and then a picture with him not,” he recalls. This nudge was used to point out that “a normal thing for a world leader to do right now is wear a mask”.
Though this tactic proved successful, the uncertainty caused in the UK has had a huge impact, especially for the future.
Prof Kwong, Prof Teo, and Prof Halpern are in agreement that the key barrier to mask wearing en masse in the UK is not political, but cultural.
All three note the difference in response to mask-wearing across East Asia as opposed to much of the West. The impact of past experiences in many East Asian countries, including Singapore and Vietnam’s Sars outbreaks in 2003, and South Korea’s Mers encounter in 2015-17, means these countries’ governments are primed to respond to the pandemic.
“Because of that experience, they have changed their statutory laws to allow the state to have certain rights during a pandemic that trump individuals’ liberty. That is clearly from their experience with an outbreak that has had a devastating impact on individuals’ lives and society,” Prof Teo explained.
It is not only experience that drives this cultural response. Prof Teo argues that in East Asian society there is a “greater sense of community spiritedness … where individuals’ action does have an impact on a greater ecosystem.”
This contrasts with many Western cultures that lack a collective mindset. “Loose cultures and the lighter social norms and the greater emphasis on individuality and freedom and choice, independent of political party, mean that it&#39;s harder to get people to do something they don&#39;t want to do for the common good,” Prof Kwong said. “Even if it&#39;s something as simple or as easy as wearing a mask.”
Prof Halpern argues that there is a link between experience and collectivist cultures. According to research, the key factor behind driving cultures to become ‘tight’ in the first place is large-scale disaster.
“Natural disasters, earthquakes, tsunamis, even pandemics, drive societies to become tighter, because you literally learn that we need to do this together or something bad happens,” he said.
This suggests that for many countries that have faced a pandemic such as Covid-19 for the first time, the response to a future pandemic may be more prepared and less individualistic.
This idea of a collectivist mindset as a reason for mask-wearing is supported by a recent study into the culture of mask usage by researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which considered the 50 states of the US, 349,000 individuals in 29 countries, and over 277,000 Facebook users in 67 countries.
The research provides evidence that “people in more collectivistic (versus individualistic) regions are more likely to wear masks”, as well as strongly suggesting that culture “fundamentally shapes how people respond to crises like the Covid-19 pandemic”.
With increasing academic evidence about the impact of wearing masks, why are people in the West not yet wearing them? The answer lies in behavioural science.
According to Prof Halpern, there are several focus points regarding future mask-wearing. One is creating a declarative social norm. Starting with key figures wearing a mask can create a “thread” or “prompt” to follow suit. “Seeing what other people are doing very strongly influences your behaviour,” he said, and in the end, “really drives it home”.
Religion can also be used as a social cue or “activation” in many countries and communities, says Prof Teo, adding that engaging religious leaders and practices in hygiene can be extremely effective.
However, he was keen to emphasise that globally, there should not be reliance on a single point of activation to convince people to put on a mask. Countries “will have different segments of the population that will respond differently to different triggers,” he said.
Prof Halpern emphasises an initial necessity for clear, cohesive messages across all aspects of life, which he likens to scaffolding. He said: “You try and create some cues which remind people. Eventually, as it starts to become a habit, it becomes more automatic, then you can take away the scaffolding.”
This approach can result in a habit which sticks for the future, if reinforced from time to time. “It’s like a little booster shot for your vaccination,” said Prof Halpern. “Occasionally you need to be reminded of wearing a mask. Then it can become quite a robust habit.”
Ruth Dove was commissioned to research and write this piece by the Reckitt Global Hygiene Institute, an independent, not-for-profit founded in 2020 to generate practical, high-quality scientific research and behavioural insights in the area of health hygiene.
Protect yourself and your family by learning more about 
What sewage secrets reveal about human health and disease
Giving aid to poorer countries helps prevent migration to UK, says minister
How AI is learning to read the human mind
Taliban repression of Afghan women is form of apartheid, says Nelson Mandela widow Graça Machel
Guyana school fire: At least 19 children dead in dormitory blaze
Cambodia chases herd immunity in dogs to stamp out rabies
