Sack Suella Braverman if you want to win election, Nimco Ali tells Rishi Sunak
 if he wants to win the next general election, an outgoing government adviser has said.
Nimco Ali accused the Home Secretary of “normalising” 
 with her “crazy rhetoric” on small boat crossings.
A close friend of Carrie Johnson, Ms Ali was brought in two years ago by Priti Patel to help with tackling violence against women.
effectively resigned live on air earlier this month
 by saying she was on a “completely different planet” to Mrs Braverman.
In an interview with The Sunday Times, she warned the 
 that he was “not going to win with Suella as his Home Secretary”.
“She’s basically feeding into this Nigel Farage stuff and when you start to normalise these things it’s really hard to put it back in its box,” Ms Ali said.
“When you have your Home Secretary speaking the way she is speaking and being cheered, that is problematic, especially when you’re the first man of colour to be Prime Minister.”
Asked whether she believed Mrs Braverman’s language was helping fuel racism in the UK, she replied: “100 per cent. It’s legitimising it.
“I don’t know why your ambition is to put people on a flight to Rwanda and get rid of human rights. You are a woman of colour. I can understand when white able-bodied men say it, but you?
“Priti talked about policy but there wasn’t this vindictiveness. It was a lack of compassion. It really doesn’t cost anything to be kind.”
Mrs Braverman has been backed by some Tory MPs but criticised in other quarters over her uncompromising rhetoric on asylum.
 when she described small boat arrivals as an “invasion on our southern coast”.
She said Labour politicians should “stop pretending they are all refugees in distress” and warned that “illegal migration is out of control”.
drew a rebuke from the Archbishop of Canterbury
, who attacked the Government’s approach as “cruel” and “harmful”.
In remarks widely seen as a swipe at the Home Secretary, he hit out at the characterisation of asylum seekers as “problems, not people, invaders to be tackled and deterred”.
“The right to seek asylum and the duty of the global community together to protect refugees has been politically degraded in this country when it should be a positive source of pride,” he said.
Government sets up world-first Whitehall anti-fraud squad
The terrible cost of welfare dependency
Boris Johnson referred to police again over new claims he broke lockdown rules
Rishi Sunak warns uncontrolled migration creating &#39;unmanageable pressure&#39;
Controlled legal migration is fairer and better for everyone
MPs yearn for some proper scandals as outrage over Suella Braverman&#39;s speeding fine stalls
