New US Congress rules dubbed a ‘ransom note to America from the extreme Right’
 jumped the first hurdle in his leadership of the chaotic US House of Representatives Monday as lawmakers approved a rules package determining how his Republicans will govern.
The vote on the blueprint - described by senior Democrat Jim McGovern as a &#34;ransom note to America from the extreme Right&#34; - came on the heels of one of the most turbulent weeks ever in the lower chamber of Congress.
Politicians almost came to blows in the newly Republican-controlled House as McCarthy was forced to go through 15 rounds of voting over four days to 
overcome a hard-Right blockade to his candidacy.
Democrats complain, however, that the deals McCarthy made to win the speaker vote have severely curtailed the role of Washington&#39;s top legislator and have ceded power to the most extreme Republicans.
A publicly available 55-page rules package lays out Republican priorities for the remainder of Democratic President Joe Biden&#39;s term and the operating procedures the party will adopt.
One of the headline measures is a panel to investigate the &#34;weaponization of government&#34; that is expected to zero in on the Justice Department&#39;s investigations into former president Donald Trump.
Much of the package is run-of-the-mill conservative politics such as provisions forcing politicians to cover increased spending with cuts elsewhere rather than new taxes.
But it also allows a single member of either party to force a vote to oust the speaker, an insurance policy that Right-wingers will use to hold McCarthy&#39;s feet to the fire.
The White House said Biden would veto the &#34;reckless&#34; legislation, which it argued would add nearly $115 billion to the deficit over a decade by &#34;enabling wealthy tax cheats&#34;.
McCarthy could only afford to lose four of his supporters at most, with every Democrat voting against the rules package, but it passed by 220 votes to 213 as only one Republican voted no.
Yet McCarthy&#39;s most controversial concessions remain clouded in mystery, as they were negotiated off the books with the hard-Right House Freedom Caucus and were not in the official package.
McCarthy has agreed for example to give the Freedom Caucus outsized sway over the day-to-day handling of legislation, according to US media, ceding significant leadership powers to the right flank.
Even more controversial is a pledge for talks with conservatives on taking up a 10-year budget that freezes spending at 2022 levels.
This would mean slashed funding for federal agencies - and a likely 10 percent decrease in defense spending that Texas Republican Tony Gonzales, the only Republican &#34;no&#34; vote on the rules package, called a &#34;horrible idea&#34;.
The cuts would delight many fiscal conservatives, except that they are largely symbolic since they would be dead on arrival in the Democratic-controlled Senate.
The upper chamber can bounce back House legislation with tweaks if it has objections, triggering compromise talks between the two sides of Congress.
France considers £130bn ‘green tax’ on the super-rich to meet net zero
Ron DeSantis will enter race to be president during event with Elon Musk
Killer whales learn to sink yachts off Gibraltar
Putin’s vitriolic mouthpiece has love-twins born in the USA
Is global superstar Vinicius Junior finally forcing Spain to face its racism demons?
Iran ousts top security official over links to executed ‘British spy’ Alireza Akbari
